looding from record rains in a mountainous region of France and Italy has killed two people in Italy and left at least 24 people in the two countries missing. A storm that moved overnight across south-eastern France and then northern Italy caused flooding on both sides of the border, destroying bridges, blocking roads and isolating communities. In Italy’s northern region of Val d’Aosta, a firefighter was killed during a rescue operation. In Vercelli province, a body was found near to where a man had been swept away by flood waters late on Friday. Sixteen people were reported missing in Italy, all but one of them travellers in cars on the Col de Tende high mountain pass between France and Italy, according to civil protection authorities. They included two adults from Germany driving with their 11-year-old and six-year-old grandchildren, and a pair of brothers returning from France. A spokesman for Italy’s firefighters said a search was ongoing for a missing shepherd who was pulled into flood waters on the Col de Tende. The spokesman, Luca Cari, said he suspected that the other people reported missing in Italy had lost phone contact, and they were not currently thought to be in imminent danger. The situation on the high mountain pass was complicated by the fact that French emergency responders could not access their side of a tunnel due to flood damage, Cari said. Italian firefighters were searching the French side for people whose route may have been blocked. In northern Italy’s Piedmont region, overnight rainfall reached levels not recorded since 1958. As much as 630mm (24.8in) of rain fell in a 24-hour period, according to the Italian civil protection agency. Hundreds of rescue operations were under way. Eleven campers were saved in Vercelli province, where flood waters hit 20-year highs. Alpine rescue squads came to the aid of seven people in houses cut off by flooding at Terme di Valdieri. In south-east France, almost a year’s average rainfall fell in less than 12 hours in the mountainous area surrounding the city of Nice. Local firefighters said at least eight people were missing, including two firefighters whose vehicle was carried away by water when the road collapsed during a rescue operation. Nice’s mayor, Christian Estrosi, expressed his “emotion and sympathy” for the families. He said more than 100 homes had been destroyed or severely damaged. Firefighters said several dozen people were evacuated from their homes overnight. The French president, Emmanuel Macron, expressed gratitude to rescuers. “Together we will get through this,” he said.
Flooding from record rains in the mountainous region that spans France and Italy killed two people in Italy and left at least 24 people missing in the two countries, authorities said on Saturday. A storm which moved overnight across southeastern France, and then northern Italy caused major flooding on both sides of the border, damaging homes, destroying bridges, blocking roads and isolating communities. In Italy, a firefighter was killed during a rescue operation in the mountainous northern region of Val d’Aosta. Another body was found in Vercelli province, near where a man had been swept away by floodwaters late on Friday. Authorities were searching for 16 people missing in Piedmont region, most of whom had been travelling in cars in the Col de Tende high mountain pass between France and Italy, according to civil protection authorities. They include two people from Germany driving with their grandchildren – aged 11 and six – and a pair of brothers returning from France. One man was reported to have been swept away by a swollen river after exiting his car in the province of Vercelli. Unrelenting rainfall overnight hit levels not seen since 1958 in northern Italy’s Piedmont region, where 630mm (24.8 inches) of rain fell in 24 hours, according to the Italian civil protection agency. Two brothers were swept away by floodwaters while they were tending animals near the French border. One brother managed to grab onto a tree and was saved, while authorities were searching on the French side for the other brother. Eleven campers were saved in Vercelli province, where floodwaters hit a 20-year high. Alpine rescue squads evacuated by foot seven people who were in houses cut off by flooding at Terme di Valdieri; some had to be carried on stretchers due to the muddy conditions and accumulation of detritus. On the other side of the border, in southeastern France, almost a year’s average rainfall fell in less than 12 hours in the mountainous area surrounding the city of Nice. Local firefighters said at least eight people were missing, including two firefighters whose vehicle was swept away by water when the road collapsed during a rescue operation. Several dozen people were evacuated from their homes overnight, firefighters said. The storm, dubbed Alex, ravaged several villages around the city of Nice on the French Riviera. Nice Mayor Christian Estrosi called it the most severe flooding disaster in the area for more than a century after flying over the worst-hit area by helicopter. “The roads and about 100 houses were swept away or partially destroyed,” he told French news channel BFM. French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday expressed his gratitude to the rescuers on Twitter, writing: “Together we will get through this.” Meteo France said 450mm (17.7 inches) of rainfall had been registered over 24 hours in some areas – the equivalent of close to four months of rain at this time of the year. There was more rainfall than on October 3, 2015, when floods caused the death of 20 people in and around the French Riviera city of Cannes, Jeremy Crunchant, director of civil protection, told France Info. Meteo France had issued a danger alert on Friday and all schools in the region had been closed. Local authorities urged people to stay at home. French Prime Minister Jean Castex and Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin arrived in the area later on Saturday.
Two people died and nine people were missing in France and Italy after a storm hit border regions of the two countries, bringing record rainfall in places and causing heavy flooding that swept away roads and damaged homes, authorities said on Saturday. The storm, dubbed Alex, ravaged several villages around the city of Nice on the French Riviera. Nice Mayor Christian Estrosi called it the worst flooding disaster in the area for more than a century after flying over the worst-hit area by helicopter. “The roads and about 100 houses were swept away or partially destroyed,” he told French news channel BFM. “I have been particularly shocked by what I saw today,” French Prime Minister Jean Castex told a news conference after visiting affected areas, adding he was concerned that the death toll could rise. At least eight people were missing in France, authorities said. These included two firemen whose vehicle was carried away by a swollen river, according to local witnesses cited by several French media. Television images from both countries showed several roads and bridges had been swept away by flood water and numerous rivers were reported to have burst their banks. In Italy, at least two people died -- one a fireman hit by a falling tree and another a man in his 30s whose car was swept into a river after a road subsided, local authorities said. As night fell, one Italian was still unaccounted for while a further 16 people earlier feared missing, including a group of six German trekkers, had all been found safe. Officials in the Piedmont region reported a record 630 mm (24.8 inches) of rain in just 24 hours in Sambughetto, close to the border with Switzerland. The Piedmont regional chief Alberto Cirio called on the government to declare a state of emergency. The water level in the River Po jumped by 3 metres (9.84 feet) in just 24 hours. Eric Ciotti, a member of the French parliament who is from one of the worst affected villages in the area, Saint-Martin-Vésubie, said several villages were cut off as they are located in steep-sided valleys of the mountainous region. Meteo France said that rainfall of 500 mm (19.69 inches) of rain was registered over 24 hours in Saint-Martin-Vésubie and close to 400 mm in several other towns - the equivalent of more than three months of rain at this time of the year. There was more rainfall than on Oct. 3 2015, when floods caused the death of 20 people in and around the French Riviera city of Cannes, Jérémy Crunchant, the director of civil protection, told France Info. In Venice, a long-delayed flood barrier system successfully protected the lagoon city from a high tide for the first time on Saturday, bringing big relief following years of repeated inundations.
Paris (AP) -- Italian firefighters rescued 25 people trapped on the French side of a high mountain pass by severe flooding that killed two people in Italy, while 15 were stuck in a train station for the night and eight more remained missing Saturday in France. A storm that moved overnight across southeastern France into northwestern Italy caused major flooding on both sides of the border, destroying bridges, blocking roads and isolating communities. In Italy, a firefighter was killed during a rescue operation in the mountainous northern region of Val d’Aosta. A search team found a body in the Piedmont region's Vercelli province, where a man had been swept away by flood waters late Friday. The Italian firefighters used a helicopter to ferry 17 people to safety from the French town of Vievola, including a woman with two grandchildren. A bulldozer fetched another eight people who managed to climb the Col de Tende, a high mountain pass linking France and Italy, to a tunnel. Fifteen more people were taking shelter in the Vievola train station after the operation to rescue them was put off until daylight. The spokesman for Italy’s firefighters, Luca Cari, said a search was ongoing for a missing shepherd who was pulled into flood waters on Col de Tende. His brother managed to grab onto a tree and was saved, while authorities were searching on the French side for the shepherd. The situation at the tunnel on the high mountain pass was complicated by the fact that French emergency responders cannot access their side due to flood damage, Cari said. Unrelenting rainfall overnight hit levels not seen since 1958 in northern Italy's Piedmont region, where as much as 630 millimeters (24.8 inches) of rain fell in a 24 hour period, according to the Italian civil protection agency. Hundreds of rescue operations were carried out. Eleven campers were saved in Vercelli province, where floodwaters hit 20-year highs. And Alpine rescue squads have evacuated by foot seven people who were in houses cut off by flooding at Terme di Valdieri; some had to be carried on stretchers due to the muddy conditions and accumulation of detritus. On the other side of the border, in southeastern France, almost a year's average rainfall fell in less than 12 hours in the mountainous area surrounding the city of Nice. Nice mayor Christian Estrosi said over 100 homes were destroyed or severely damaged in the area. French Prime Minister Jean Castex, who flew over the area in an helicopter, confirmed that at least eight people were missing in France, including two firefighters whose vehicle was carried away by water when a road collapsed. “I cannot hide our grave concern on the definitive toll,” Castex said. Many worried families had not heard from their relatives due to cellphone services being cut off in the area. “As I speak, priority goes to searching for victims, providing supplies and accommodation for the people affected, and restoring communications," the prime minister said. Rescue efforts included 871 personnel working on the ground, as well as military helicopters and troops helping with emergency assistance, Castex said. French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday expressed gratitude toward rescuers on Twitter. “Together we will get through this,” he said. France’s national weather agency, Meteo France, said that up to 500 millimeters of rain (19.7 inches) were recorded in some areas, the equivalent of almost one year of average rainfall. Meteo France issued a danger alert on Friday and all schools in the region had been closed. Local authorities urged people to stay at home. In central Switzerland, flooding along the Reuss River caused the closure of a stretch of the A2 highway – a major trans-Alpine route. Further east, 13 residents were evacuated from their homes in the town of Diesbach because of flooding
Two people died and 25 people were missing in France and Italy after a storm hit border regions of the two countries, bringing record rainfall in places and causing heavy flooding that swept away roads and damaged homes, authorities said on Saturday. The storm, dubbed Alex, ravaged several villages around the city of Nice on the French Riviera. Nice Mayor Christian Estrosi called it the worst flooding disaster in the area for more than a century after flying over the worst-hit area by helicopter. “The roads and about 100 houses were swept away or partially destroyed,” he told French news channel BFM. “I have been particularly shocked by what I saw today,” French Prime Minister Jean Castex told a news conference after visiting affected areas, adding he was concerned that the death toll could rise. At least eight people were missing in France, authorities said. These included two firemen whose vehicle was carried away by a swollen river, according to local witnesses cited by several French media. Television images from both countries showed several roads and bridges had been swept away by flood water and numerous rivers were reported to have burst their banks. In Italy, at least two people died — one a fireman and another a man in his 30s whose car was swept into a river after a road subsided, local authorities said. Seventeen people were also missing. Six German trekkers were among the missing after failing to return from a trip in the mountains in the province of Cuneo. Officials in the Piedmont region reported a record 630 mm (24.8 inches) of rain in just 24 hours in Sambughetto, close to the border with Switzerland. The Piedmont regional chief Alberto Cirio called on the government to declare a state of emergency. The water level in the River Po jumped by 3 metres (9.84 feet) in just 24 hours. Eric Ciotti, a member of French parliament who is from one of the worst affected villages in the area, Saint-Martin-Vésubie, said several villages were cut off as they are located in steep-sided valleys of the mountainous region. Meteo France said that rainfall of 500 mm (19.69 inches) of rain was registered over 24 hours in Saint-Martin-Vésubie and close to 400 mm in several other towns – the equivalent of more than three months of rain at this time of the year. There was more rainfall than on Oct. 3 2015, when floods caused the death of 20 people in and around the French Riviera city of Cannes, Jérémy Crunchant, the director of civil protection, told France Info. Venice, a long-delayed flood barrier system successfully protected the lagoon city from a high tide for the first time on Saturday, bringing big relief following years of repeated inundations.