0,"A woman and her five children were among the eight people who died in a dock fire at a north Alabama marina , authorities and relatives said , per the AP. Grace Annette Watson Miles , 40 , was killed in the blaze early Monday , along with Dezli Nicole Miles , 7 ; Kesston Damien Miles , 9 ; Traydon Dominic Miles , 10 ; Bryli Long , 16 ; and Christopher Zane Long , 19 , Jackson County Emergency Management Director Paul Smith told a news conference Wednesday. Witnesses and relatives said the woman ' s husband , Joe Miles , was rescued from the water with burns. Miles and others helped the woman and her children get off the flaming dock on to a boat that later caught fire , said survivor Tommy Jones. "" There was nothing we could do , "" Jones said. story continues below Smith said the other two victims included 54-year-old Yancey Roper , whom Jones identified as his brother , and Amanda Garrard Foster , 38. Foster ' s stepsister , Monica Pascale-Howard , told the the Clarion-Ledger that her father married Foster ' s mother , giving her a sister she never had. "" She was silly , "" Pascale-Howard said. "" She had the most outgoing personality. "" Authorities said the victims were living in boats at a large dock at Jackson County Park Marina. Investigators are concentrating on a vessel still in the water as a possible cause of the fire , Smith told reporters. Many of the approximately 35 boats that burned were submerged in the water and mostly destroyed , making the salvage effort difficult. "" They ' re salvaging slowly. We ' re in no hurry , "" said Smith. ( Read more fire stories. )"
1,"This weekend , the leader of Spain ' s Catalonia region officially approved a vote on independence Nov. 9  but the Spanish government has quickly come down against it. Today , Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said the referendum , at odds with the country ' s constitution , couldn ' t be held , the New York Times reports. And Spain ' s Constitutional Court has also moved against the vote , at least temporarily : The court suspended the referendum as it mulls the matter , the Wall Street Journal reports. The same court earlier ruled the vote was illegal. story continues below What happens next is an open question. Protests in the region could continue , and Catalan President Artur Mas could even hold the vote against the court ' s wishes ; that "" would be a real earthquake for the EU , forcing other Europeans to enter uncharted waters and take sides in a national dispute that has no precedent , "" says a researcher. But "" the most probable scenario "" is early elections in the region , an expert tells the Journal  and they could usher in a Catalan ruling party that backs independence even more than the current Convergence and Union coalition. A majority of Catalans appear to support a vote , though opinion on independence itself is divided , the Times reports. ( Read more Catalonia stories. )"
2,"Now a tropical storm , Henri hit the coast of Rhode Island on Sunday afternoon , with high winds that knocked out power to thousands of homes and rain that has brought flash flooding to the Northeast. Even as a tropical storm , Henri had wind gusts up to 70mph , the AP reports , and forecasters ' expectations didn ' t change much. In addition to high winds , storm surge and flooding rain are predicted for the region , per ABC ; tropical storm warnings have been issued for the stretch from New York to Massachusetts. By noon , thousands of people in Rhode Island , Connecticut , and Massachusetts had already lost power. Inland areas could be hit hardest by rainfall. story continues below Heavy rain in the beach towns of southern Rhode Island has made some coastal roads almost impassable , per the AP. The center of the storm moved past Block Island , which reported 65mph winds , in late morning. Gov. Dan McKee warned residents Sunday to prepare for flooding and the loss of power. "" I ' m asking you , Rhode Island , to stay home until this storm passes , "" McKee said. In Massachusetts , tourists were stuck in their cars waiting for a ferry to take them from the islands of Martha ' s Vineyard and Nantucket after the Coast Guard closed ports on Cape Cod and New Bedford. The ports weren ' t likely to open until after the worst of the storm. East Hampton Mayor Jerry Larsen said mass evacuations are impractical on the eastern end of Long Island because of the lack of major roads. "" We have one lane of travel leaving the Hamptons , so it ' s a little difficult to order evacuations , "" Larsen said. "" So most people will shelter in place. "" Gov. Ned Lamont called on Connecticut residents to do the same from Sunday afternoon through at least Monday morning. Major airports in the Northeast were still open , but hundreds of flights have been canceled. Heavy rain caused rail service on Long Island and in southern New England to be shut down , per the New York Times. "" I love storms , "" a 20-year resident of Westerly , RI , said Sunday. "" I think they  re exciting , as long as no one gets hurt. "" ( Read more Tropical Storm stories. )"
3,"The Atlantic goes looking for some silver lining to the Yosemite wildfire , and finds this : Carl Skinner , a US Forest Service ecologist , has discovered that the forest has been altered over the past 100 years due to human intervention into naturally occurring forest fires , becoming less diverse. So the current Rim fire could "" reboot "" the system back to its historical roots , allowing for a wider variety of habitats where long-dormant plants can once again thrive. story continues below "" If you have a living forest , getting older and older , it  s not something we have an option to conserve in an unchanging way ,  says an ecologist from Colorado State University. Some fires are going to be necessary if we want to sustain these old forests.  It ' s not quite that simple , though , says Skinner  this fire isn ' t natural and could be so intense that it damages seeds and tree roots to the point of no return. In other fire-related silver lining , the blaze is now 80 % contained , and the evacuation order has been lifted in several nearby communities , reports the AP. ( Read more wildfires stories. )"
4,"The 19 firefighters killed in Arizona ' s Yarnell Hill Fire were among "" the best of the best "" in their field , say peers  but that wasn ' t enough to protect members of the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew when the fire took a quick , unexpected turn. "" Only Mother Nature might be able to explain "" the details , says a local fire chief , but the Wall Street Journal reports that the men faced a "" burn over , "" with flames shifting direction too quickly for the firefighters to avoid them. At the time , the men were between a pair of ridges , the Arizona Republic notes , and thunderstorms overhead combined with erratic winds and drought conditions for "" explosive fire behavior , "" one official tells ABC News. story continues below Up to 10 people selected from around the country will investigate the deaths and issue a report. Burn overs are among the biggest dangers for firefighters  including hotshots , who train at least 80 hours at the start of every fire season. There are some 110 such groups in the US , with about 20 members each , the Journal notes. But this team is the only one that ' s part of a city fire department. At 4 : 50pm on Sunday , the men radioed to say their fire shelters were set up , a forestry official says , per the Guardian ; it was the crew ' s last transmission. Crews weren ' t able to access the area for hours. "" It was too hot and smokey , "" says a forestry official. ( Read more firefighters stories. )"
5,"It started with a pair of Avengers-branded shoes. One day in May , attorney Carrie Jernigan was shopping at a Payless near her home in Alma , Ark. , with her kids , trying to grab as many pairs of deeply discounted footwear as she could after Payless announced it would soon be closing all of its stores , per CNN. But when her 9-year-old daughter asked if they could buy a pair of Avengers sneakers for a classmate in need , Jernigan was struck with an idea : What if she just bought out the entire store and donated all of the shoes ? And so she half-jokingly asked the clerk how much she ' d want for the 350 or so pairs of shoes still perched on the store ' s shelves. Per KFSM , the clerk asked for Jernigan ' s phone number and told her she ' d let her know about her request. story continues below A few hours later , Jernigan got the call that she could buy out the rest of the store  and while she was there to pick up her new footwear , a final shipment came in with more shoes , and Jernigan scooped those up , too. All told , she went home with about 1,500 shoes , worth about $ 21,000 before the store ' s slashed prices. Jernigan had so much new merch that she decided to hold a fundraiser in August , where she ' ll also give away school supplies to families in need. Local businesses and a church are assisting her with that effort. She hopes this will inspire others. "" If they can go help one person , one child , go to school with a new pair of shoes on , it will make that child  s day so much better , "" she tells CNN. ( A Kansas woman pulled off a similar act of generosity for Nebraska flood victims. )"
6,"A California wildfire has burned some 35 square miles north of Los Angeles and prompted evacuation orders for almost 3,000 people. Part of its fuel : "" extremely old and dry "" brush that last burned in 1929 , a US Forest Service official explained yesterday , per the AP. Some 2,100 firefighters are battling the so-called Powerhouse blaze , whose size tripled in 12 hours this weekend , the Los Angeles Times reports. Behind the rapid expansion : wind. Gusts hit 40mph yesterday , creating what the Times calls a "" chimney effect "" in the canyons. story continues below "" At 10 : 55[ pm ] , we thought we were OK. At 11 , we saw the flames come over the ridge and we left. It was that fast , "" says a local resident. But firefighters saw some hope last night as temperatures and wind speeds dropped ; officials today say the blaze is holding. No word yet on the cause. The fire is one of several in the western US , with two others roaring in New Mexico , the AP notes. A 12-square-mile blaze in the Santa Fe National Forest has prompted the evacuation of some 140 homes , while a smaller fire near Jemez Springs saw dozens of homes evacuated. ( Read more wildfires stories. )"
7,"Newly downgraded to a Category 1 storm , Hurricane Florence was already wreaking havoc on North Carolina as the gigantic storm crept slowly ashore early Friday , with hundreds of people already rescued. The storm is packing winds of 90mph  much lower than once feared  and is moving at 6mph , reports NPR. Authorities stress that even with the lower wind speed , the storm is extremely dangerous and could still kill "" a lot of people , "" with inland flooding posing the biggest risk , the BBC reports. The National Hurricane Center said Florence made landfall at Wrightsville Beach , NC , about 7 : 45am. story continues below Authorities say Florence is bringing "" catastrophic "" flooding to a large area of the Carolinas , and at least six tornadoes have been spotted in eastern North Carolina. the AP reports. The Guardian reports that North Carolina ' s Department of Public Safety says more than 320,000 homes in the state are without power. The coastal city of New Bern , which sits at the intersection of two rivers , tweeted that 150 people were awaiting rescue from out-of-state FEMA teams , the News &amp; Observer reports. Mayor Dana Outlaw said around 200 people had been rescued earlier. He could not confirm whether there were fatalities. Authorities in Jacksonville , around 30 miles south of New Bern , say 70 people had to be rescued from a hotel that was in danger of collapsing. ( Read more Hurricane Florence stories. )"
8,"In a quintessentially British celebration , London commemorated the 350th anniversary of the Great Fire of London by burning the whole city down all over again  this time in miniature. Spectators packed the banks of the River Thames to watch as a 394-foot wooden replica of 17th-century London was set alight on a barge Sunday night , the CBC reports. The 1666 blaze , which started in a baker ' s shop , destroyed the homes of 70,000 of the city ' s population of 80,000 as it burned out of control for four days. The burning of the model , designed by US artist David Best , was the climax of the city ' s "" London ' s Burning "" festival. story continues below "" I ' ve seen a shed blown up in the name of art , I ' ve seen fireworks , I ' ve seen artists bury themselves , I ' ve seen the trace of an artist shooting himself in the hand or nailing himself to a car , but actually I ' ve never seen anyone collaborate with so many people in such an extraordinary and exciting way , to make a commemorative replica of a skyline 350 years ago and then set fire to it , "" Royal Academy of Arts artistic director Tim Barlow tells the BBC. "" I mean this is spectacle and then some. "" ( In 2014 , the British embassy in Washington , DC apologized for the way it commemorated the 200th anniversary of British troops burning the White House during the War of 1812. )"
9,"In his failed quest to become governor of Alabama , Bill Johnson campaigned against gay marriage in 2009  but he has been secretly donating sperm to lesbian couples in New Zealand since. Johnson headed to the country this year to aid in earthquake recovery ; it was his desire to father children that drove him to donate without telling his wife , who has three kids from a previous relationship and had a hysterectomy in advance of their 2004 wedding. Or so he told the New Zealand Herald , which found that Johnson has discussed donating sperm with at least nine women , three of whom have become pregnant. The urge to procreate is "" a need that I have , "" he told the paper. story continues below Fertility experts don ' t recommend donating to more than four families , to cut chances of accidental incest. When the Herald approached Johnson on Thursday in a restaurant where he was dining with one of the women he had impregnated , he said there was "" nothing my wife would want to give me more in the world than a child of my own ""  though he admitted he hadn ' t planned to tell wife Kathy about his extracurricular activity until after the children were born. "" I ' m still in disbelief and very hurt , and our family has a lot of healing to do , "" she tells Alabama Live. ( Read more sperm donors stories. )"
10,"An undersea volcanic eruption has given Japan a tiny patch of new territory  but the country is going to wait and see whether the sea swallows it before it names the new island. The island was born in a huge eruption of exploding rocks and smoke that reached one-third of a mile into the air. It currently measures around 660 feet in diameter and sits just off the coast of Nishinoshima , an uninhabited island 620 miles south of Tokyo , the AP reports. The Bangkok Post reports that the Japanese navy first spotted smoke yesterday morning , with Volcano Discovery reporting that the navy identified "" surtseyan activity "" there ; that ' s the "" explosive interaction of sea-water and lava , generating violent jets of steam and ash. "" story continues below The coast guard then verified the presence of the volcano island and issued a more measured warning to ships : "" Smoke is still rising from the volcanic island , and we issued a navigation warning to say that this island has emerged with ash falling in the area. "" It is the first known volcanic activity in the area , part of the Pacific ' s "" Ring of Fire , "" in around 40 years. "" This has happened before and in some cases the islands disappeared , "" a government spokesman says , though if it doesn ' t , Japan has plans for the bit of land , reports Kyodo News : "" If it becomes an island , our country ' s territorial waters will expand , "" he noted , which the Post says was directed at the country ' s battles with China and South Korea over another set of islands far from this one. ( In Pakistan , a new island appeared after an earthquake two months ago , but it is already beginning to sink. )"
11,"Farming isn ' t the only thing being devastated by the country ' s ongoing drought  much of the US ' infrastructure is getting pounded , too , as the record-setting heat takes its toll on concrete , steel , and pavement , reports the New York Times. In Washington , DC , 100-degree temperatures caused a subway to derail and softened asphalt on an airport runway enough that a jet got stuck. In the Northeast and Midwest , the heat has highways expanding beyond their design limits , causing them to ripple and pop up where sections join. In Texas , the clay underneath the highways is shrinking from the drought , causing major cracking on the roads above. story continues below Even more dangerous than road damage , though , are the nuclear power plants affected by the extreme weather. In Chicago , officials at a nuclear plant needed to get special permission to keep the plant operating because its cooling water temperature rose to 102 degrees , above its 100-degree limit. Another plant was forced to shut down because the drought dried up the water source it normally uses for cooling. And the Times notes that infrastructure experts expect the extreme weather to stick around. "" We ' ve got the ' storm of the century ' every year now , "" said a power company executive. ( Read more drought stories. )"
12,"California ' s latest wildfire is only getting worse , and "" firenadoes "" aren ' t helping. That ' s the term used by a spokesman for the crews battling what is known as the Carr Fire in Shasta County , reports ABC News. Think winds of about 60mph fanning flames into a "" fire tornadoes "" that can overturn vehicles "" like toys , "" explains Scott McLean. And this all started in a mundane way : Authorities say a vehicle broke down Monday afternoon by Highway 299 in Whiskeytown , reports the Sacramento Bee , triggering a brush fire that soon spun out of control. story continues below The blaze worsened overnight , expanding to 75 square miles , or about 48,000 acres , reports the AP. Authorities say 500 structures have been destroyed and another 50,000 are in danger. Two people fighting the wildfire have been killed and three others injured , reports CNN. One of those killed was a firefighter from Redding , Jeremy Stoke , and the other was a private bulldozer operator , unidentified. The fire has forced the evacuation of nearly 40,000 people so far. ( An arsonist is blamed for a different wildfire. )"
13,"Four more boys were rescued from a cave system in Thailand on Monday , leaving four more boys and their soccer coach still stranded deep in the system as rescue operations suspended for the day , reports Reuters. Ambulances were seen leaving the scene. The development comes a day after four other boys were successfully rescued , the BBC reports. The massive operation , involving around 90 divers , was put on hold overnight so air tanks could be replaced , reports the AP. The second phase of the operation was launched Monday morning local time , with divers returning to the cave system. The boys ( there were a total of 12 ) and the coach will be brought out one by one , with each escorted through the cave network by two divers , authorities say. story continues below Narongsak Osottanakorn , chief of the rescue mission , says the first four rescued boys have been hospitalized and haven ' t been reunited with their families yet because of the risk of infection , though they may be allowed to see them through a glass door. He says that water levels in the cave system , where a massive pumping operation has taken place , haven ' t risen despite rain on Sunday , and some passageways are walkable. Authorities decided to carry out the high-risk rescue because monsoons threatened to flood the caves even more , including the dry ledge where the trapped boys and their coach ended up. ( The coach has sent out a message apologizing to the boys ' parents. )"
14,"The weekend weather forecast has provided an ominous deadline for rescuers scrambling to get 12 young soccer players and their coach out of a flooded cave in northern Thailand. The area has been dry for days but heavy rains are expected to hit soon , potentially driving water levels up , thwarting rescue efforts , or even flooding the dry spot the boys fled to after heavy rains cut them off from the cave system ' s exit on June 23 , the BBC reports. "" We are racing against time before we found them , "" Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osotthanakorn said early Thursday. "" Now we are racing against water. "" story continues below Experts believe waiting for the waters to recede could be the safest option , but that could take months. The boys are getting diving lessons and unless efforts to find a shaft in the jungle above the cave succeed , rescuers are expected to try to get the boys out within days , starting with those best able to make the difficult journey through narrow tunnels. The military has been running hundreds of pumps in an effort to lower the water level enough for the boys to simply walk out , though one major chamber remains flooded to the ceiling , the Guardian reports. Rescuers are also trying to install an Internet cable so the boys can communicate with their parents. "" It ' s like he has been given a new life , "" the mother of a 16-year-old in the cave tells the AP. She says if he makes it out , she will never let him go near a cave again. ( Read more Thailand stories. )"
15,"The biggest snowstorm to hit the area in years is heading for the Northeast , and is forecasted to bring a lot of snow to the region starting Wednesday. Per CBS News , New York City is expected to receive more than a foot of snow  something that hasn ' t happened in a single storm for nearly five years. Other major cities along the East Coast including Washington , DC , Philadelphia , Hartford , Providence , and Boston will also likely be hit hard , with some areas potentially getting the equivalent of half a season ' s worth of snow in just one day. Strong winds and coastal flooding are also expected , reports the Weather Channel , which offers a detailed rundown of what to expect when. ( Read more snowstorm stories. )"
16,"California , already facing drought , wildfires , and high temperatures , is now in for a new , potentially record-setting heatwave. Temperatures in inland regions will climb into the triple digits into the weekend , with possible highs of 120 degrees Fahrenheit in some areas , per the Guardian and Los Angeles Times. The National Weather Service has issued an excessive heat warning for much of the state that will last into Monday , reports Yahoo. Temperatures could hit 112 degrees in the Antelope and Cuyama Valleys and interior San Luis Obispo County , 115 degrees in the Central , Apple , and Lucerne Valleys , 116 degrees in the valleys of San Diego , and 120 degrees in desert areas like Palm Springs. Meanwhile , Death Valley could see 130 degrees , "" the highest temperature recorded there or anywhere on the planet in decades , "" per the Washington Post. story continues below NWS meteorologist Eric Schoening says it "" will be a long duration event , where it is not going to cool down much at night. So it is a dangerous time for the state , "" per the Guardian. A heatwave over Fourth of July weekend sparked several fires and there are fears that more could erupt. "" Vegetation is very dry on the hillsides because we  ve had two very dry years in a row "" and "" any time you have hot temperatures , that ' s also a contributing factor , "" NWS meteorologist David Sweet tells the Times. Extremely low soil moisture "" is making it easier for these high pressure systems to generate extreme heat waves because more of the sun ' s energy is going into heating the atmosphere rather than evaporating nonexistent water in the soil , "" UCLA climate scientist Daniel Swain tells NPR. "" That ' s sort of the vicious cycle of drought and extreme heat in a warming climate. "" ( Read more California stories. )"
17,"The first hurricane of the 2020 eastern Pacific season is expected to bring strong winds , dangerous surf , and heavy rainfall to Hawaii on Sunday. The storm , Douglas , intensified Thursday into a Category 3 hurricane , with wind speeds of 120mph. The hurricane , currently about 1,470 miles east-southeast of Hilo , is expected to weaken starting Friday but will still be "" at or near hurricane intensity "" as it nears the island chain on Sunday , the National Hurricane Center says , per CNN. The chance of a direct hit is low , though the effects could still be severe , and the NHC warned Hawaii to be on guard. story continues below Meanwhile , a tropical storm watch has been issued for part of the Texas Gulf Coast as Tropical Depression Eight is whirling 400 miles from Port O ' Connor , per USA Today. It ' s slowly gaining strength and is expected to become a tropical storm before making landfall on Saturday. If that happens , it would be named Hanna and become the earliest recorded "" H "" storm on record in the Atlantic basin. Life-threatening surf and rip current conditions are possible , according to the NHC. Elsewhere in the Atlantic , Tropical Storm Gonzalo , some 910 miles east of the Caribbean ' s Windward Islands , is likely to become a hurricane on Thursday as it continues to track west. Barbados , St. Vincent , and the Grenadines are under a hurricane watch , with warnings of life-threatening flash floods. ( Read more hurricane stories. )"
18,"Apparently taking a cue from Captain James. T. Kirk himself , one California politician is looking into the possibility of shipping 9 billion gallons of water from Alaska to the increasingly dry state , USA Today reports. Rep. Janice Hahn held an exploratory meeting last week with Terry Trapp , the CEO of Alaska Bulk Water. Trapp ' s company has water rights to Blue Lake in Sitka , Alaska , and he wants to use tanker ships to get that water to California , which is in the fourth year of a serious drought. The Daily Breeze reports Trapp believes his company is part of the solution , though Hahn isn ' t quite so sold. "" I think it was an opportunity to think outside the box , "" she said following the meeting. story continues below The major hurdle is cost. USA Today reports Trapp wants 6 cents per gallon  or 12 times what California currently pays for its water. That brings the total to $ 540 million per year for enough water for only 70,000 of California ' s 12 million families. If that seems a little steep , Hahn agrees , even with Trapp upselling his product as "" some of the most pure water on Earth. "" According to the Breeze , this is a family passion for Hahn , whose father talked about a water pipeline from Alaska when he was in California politics in the 1980s. He wasn ' t alone. The Juneau Empire reports former Alaska governor Wally Hickel proposed such a pipeline around the same time , though his plan was "" widely ridiculed. "" ( Read more California stories. )"
19,"The Chicago shoreline and other areas around Lake Michigan will be a very dangerous place to be on Wednesday and Thursday , forecasters warn. The National Weather Service says "" large , battering waves "" up to 16 feet high could hit the area , driven by northerly winds of up to 45mph , CNN reports. Waves up to 18 feet high are expected elsewhere along the shoreline. The NWS says flooding is expected , especially along the Indiana shore. The service says the waves , combined with above-average lake levels , will cause beach erosion and "" extremely dangerous conditions at the lakefront. "" story continues below "" These types of waves ... happen a handful of times each year , "" meteorologist Lee Carlaw tells the Chicago Tribune. "" In fact , this is the time of year for it as we go into the autumn. "" The NWS forecasts occasional waves of up to 21 feet , which would rival the record of 23 feet recorded 40 miles off Kenosha , Wisconsin , in 2011. The lake level at the southern end of Lake Michigan is expected to be 1 or 2 feet higher than normal , per ABC7. Authorities say doing anything near the water will be hazardous  and actually getting in the water could be a fatal mistake. "" Swimming conditions will be life-threatening , especially for inexperienced swimmers , "" officials in Chicago warned Tuesday. "" Remain out of the water to avoid dangerous swimming conditions and do not venture out onto piers , jetties , breakwalls , or other shoreline structures. "" ( Read more Lake Michigan stories. )"
20,"North Korea said Wednesday it is suffering its worst drought since 1982 , with an average of just 2.1 inches of rain having fallen in the country during the first five months of the year. In 1982 , the level was 2 inches during that same period. The drought is expected to continue until the end of this month ; a North Korean newspaper says officials and workers are trying to find new water sources as well as minimize the damage to agriculture. Earlier this month , UN food agencies reported a joint assessment showing that after one of the worst harvests in the country in a decade , about 10 million people there are facing "" severe food shortages. "" And in February , North Korea ' s ambassador to the United Nations issued what the AP calls "" an unusual appeal for urgent food assistance. "" story continues below The Guardian reports that last year , food production in North Korea hit its lowest level in a decade. "" We are particularly concerned about the impact that this early drought will have on children and adults who are already struggling to survive , "" says a Red Cross rep. "" Even before this drought , one in five children under five years old was stunted because of poor nutrition. We are concerned that these children will not be able to cope with further stress on their bodies. "" North Korea has blamed bad weather and international economic sanctions for the food shortage , and experts say climate change is playing a role. South Korea is considering providing food aid , but Japan ' s foreign minister said last week food aid should not be sent as long as the country ' s leaders prioritize nuclear weapons development over citizens ' welfare. ( Read more North Korea stories. )"
21,"Maybe the old slumber send-off of "" sleep tight , don ' t let the bedbugs bite "" is due for an addendum  namely "" and don ' t set yourself and your apartment building on fire. "" Case in point : A Detroit man was recovering from burns Friday after dousing himself and his couch with alcohol in an attempt to kill bedbugs , and then trying to light one of the critters on fire  and lighting a cigarette , the Detroit Free Press reports. The couch caught fire , as did the amateur exterminator , and the Jan. 3 blaze ultimately destroyed about four units in the eight-floor St Antoine Gardens apartments. The man  an unnamed 30-year-old , per FOX 2  was able to get down to the lobby , per the Free Press , and asked a witness to pray with him. story continues below "" He was melting , "" the witness says. "" I was scared. He was screaming. "" Residents tell the Free Press that the building is infested with bedbugs. Despite exterminators coming twice a month , the man who started the fire had been complaining of the pests for four months , a resident says. In response to the fire , residents say management , which declined to talk to reporters , turned away the Red Cross ( which later provided cots and blankets ) and instead passed out pizza , coffee , and donuts. Many residents remain in the building despite the damage. "" It ' s extremely disappointing , "" says one. The city , per FOX , has launched an investigation to determine if the building is livable. "" Those people can ' t stay in that situation very long , "" a rep says. According to ServiceMaster last week , Detroit leads the nation in bedbugs. ( Read more bedbugs stories. )"
22,"For the first time in 41 years , not a single person stood on the summit of Mount Everest , the world ' s highest peak at 29,029 feet , during an entire calendar year. But that ' s not even close to the worst of what 2015 brought , as famed climber Alan Arnette reports in his year-end blog summary titled "" Summits Don ' t Matter. "" After a record 358 permits were issued to individual climbers at the start of the year , a magnitude-7.8 earthquake struck Nepal in April , claiming 8,000-plus lives across the country and a record 18 ( or 24 , the numbers vary ) on the mountain , reports the Telegraph. The deadliest day in the mountain ' s history came almost exactly one year after the previous record , when an avalanche claimed 16 lives in April 2014. story continues below Everest "" inspires humility , "" the Takeaway reports , but every year the ante is raised as more climbers try to reach the summit and more Sherpas and their families come to rely on mountaineering and trekking tourism. As such the government of Nepal at first hesitated to shut down the mountain following the disaster in April 2015 , but another earthquake in May , as well as broken ladders , forced them to issue no more permits until the end of the summer , when famed Japanese climber Nobukazu Kuriki , who ' d lost all his fingers during one of his previous four bids on the mountain , gave it another go. He abandoned his campaign just 2,300 feet from the summit in late September , the Guardian reported at the time , and the mountain let no one else through. ( A Google exec was among the dead in 2015. )"
23,"Melania Trump is planning another visit to immigration centers housing migrants who have been apprehended at the US-Mexico border , the AP reports. The first lady ' s spokeswoman wouldn ' t say where she plans to go , but did tell CNN the trip would happen this week. "" The first lady is moved by what she is hearing , and what she saw in Texas , and she wants to again see and listen for herself what is happening in these places , "" her rep says. Mrs. Trump traveled to the border town of McAllen , Texas , last Thursday to meet with law enforcement and social services providers and tour a nonprofit center housing children who were detained under her husband ' s policy of prosecuting all illegal border-crossers. She also met with children at the center , but a stop at a Customs and Border Protection facility was scrapped because of heavy rain and flooding. ( But the trip was overshadowed by the jacket she wore to and from Texas. )"
24,"Last month , Facebook decided it wasn ' t going to bar or fact-check political ads during this election season , nor keep those ads from being targeted to certain groups of people. Now , partly based on that , Stephen King has made his own decision : He has left the social media site for good. "" I ' m quitting Facebook , "" the 72-year-old tweeted Friday. "" Not comfortable with the flood of false information that ' s allowed in its political advertising , nor am I confident in its ability to protect its users ' privacy. "" Per CNN Business , the horror author ' s Facebook page has indeed been nixed. story continues below Twitter banned political ads entirely late last year , while Google revamped its policy regarding how its own political ads target consumers. MarketWatch notes other big names , such as Mark Hamill , have recently dumped Facebook over similar concerns. "" So disappointed that #MarkZuckerberg values profit more than truthfulness , "" the Star Wars star wrote in his own tweet last month. If you ' re worried you won ' t see King ' s posts anymore about his work , politics  he ' s been quite vocal about his feelings toward President Trump , for example  or his corgi , Molly , never fear : He ' ll still be online. "" Follow me ( and Molly , aka The Thing of Evil ) on Twitter , if you like , "" he added in his tweet. ( Read more Stephen King stories. )"
25,"Multiple people died and dozens others were rescued when three ferry boats separately capsized in bad weather Saturday between two central Philippine island provinces , the coast guard said. Coast guard spokesman Armand Balilo said it ' s not immediately clear if there were passengers or crewmen missing after the inter-island ferries either turned over or sank in rough seas , wind , and rain between Guimaras and Iloilo provinces , per the AP , which reports seven dead. GMA News Online and ABS-CBN report the death toll is at 11. Balilo told the AP that one of the ferry boats , M/B Cheche , was carrying at least 42 passengers. Another boat , M/B Keizha , reportedly had four crewmen on board , while the third ferry , M/B Jenny , carried an unspecified number of people who were rescued and brought on board a coast guard ship , he said. story continues below Video from ABS-CBN showed a rescuer carrying a child from a motorboat to an ambulance at an Iloilo pier , where frantic relatives waited. Forecasters have warned of heavy monsoon rains and thunderstorms amid a brewing storm about 550 miles off the country ' s eastern coast. Classes and work have been suspended in the Manila metropolis amid heavy rains and flooding , which caused heavy traffic jams Friday in low-lying areas in the capital. About 20 typhoons and storms batter the Philippines each year , making the archipelago that lies on the Pacific typhoon and earthquake belt one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world. ( Read more Philippines stories. )"
26,"Two former law enforcement officers in South Carolina are going to face criminal charges in the disturbing deaths of two mental health patients who drowned during Hurricane Florence. Nicolette Green and Wendy Newton died in the back of the sheriff ' s van they were being transported to a mental hospital in after the vehicle ran into floodwaters. Deputies Stephen Flood and Joshua Bishop , who were rescued , said they were unable to free the women from the locked metal compartment in the back of the van as it slowly sank , Authorities say Flood , who was driving , will be charged with reckless homicide and involuntary manslaughter , WSPA reports. Bishop will be charged with involuntary manslaughter. story continues below The Horry County Sheriff ' s Office fired the deputies in October after an internal investigation , the AP reports. Officials say National Guardsmen waved the van past barricades erected to keep motorists away from floodwaters. Newton , 45 , and Green , 43 , did not have criminal histories and had not been charged with crimes. The deaths sparked moves in South Carolina to change the law so that mental health patients are not treated like criminals , the Post and Courier reports. "" My sister was not silent when she was in that van for 30 mins , screaming for help , as it was filling up with water , "" Jewels Green , one of Green ' s sisters , wrote in a Facebook post. "" My sister does not have a voice anymore. I must speak for her , and for others who suffer from the shame and bigotry attached to mental health illness. "" ( A mother whose baby drowned after she drove past barricades was charged with involuntary manslaughter. )"
27,"Fifteen years after construction first began , the Xanadu mall is open. Except the new name for the "" extremely unique "" $ 5 billion project in East Rutherford , NJ , is American Dream , and publicists prefer to call it not a mall , but a "" style and entertainment destination. "" The grand opening Friday of the site built in the Meadowlands ( PennLive has pics ) is only partial , reports the New York Times. That ' s because , per owner Triple Five Group , the mall will unfold in "" chapters , "" starting with "" Chapter One , "" an ice rink and Nickelodeon theme park. What ' s coming down the pike : a water park and indoor ski slope by year ' s end , followed by more than 350 "" shopping experiences "" in March. The North Jersey Record notes the mall ' s concept emerged in 1991 , with construction starting in 2004. But financial issues plagued the first two owners , and progress crawled until 2011 , when Triple Five took over. story continues below Some wonder if this mall will be a dream or a nightmare for its owners , considering it ' s in a location you can ' t easily get to on public transit , the shops of New York City are only a few miles away , and eventual retailers in the mall won ' t be able to sell on Sundays due to Bergen County laws. Plus the surrounding area is swampland prone to flooding , and environmentalists are concerned about auto emissions from visitors and the energy use of such a huge complex. Triple Five chief Don Ghermezian doesn ' t seem fazed , though , telling the Times the mall will be a competitor with attractions like Disney World and will put that part of Jersey "" on the map "" for tourists. Per CBS New York , it will cost $ 24 to park for eight hours , but there will be buses and ferry shuttles to help bring people from NYC. "" You don ' t need to ... fly to Orlando anymore , "" Ghermezian says. "" You can just come across the river. "" ( Read more shopping mall stories. )"
28,"Kauai was hit with historic flooding over the weekend  a record 28 inches of rain fell in just about 24 hours  but a legendary surfer was there to save the day for many who were stranded. Laird Hamilton , who pioneered the art of big wave tow-in surfing , spent Saturday helping people caught in the downpour and ensuing mudslides , including one San Diego family that was on the island for a vacation. The Gwilliams were stuck in their rented house along a river , which flooded its banks and washed out surrounding roads and a bridge. "" I was terrified , "" mom Erin Gwilliam tells Hawaii News Now. That ' s when Hamilton , who lives across the river , showed up in a boat with his daughter and their dog. story continues below "" He just kind of boated right up and was like , ' OK , come through the mud and the slime and come throw your bags in and let ' s go , ' "" Erin says. He reassured their kids and took photos and videos with the family as he ferried them off the North Shore. "" Now it just confirms him as being a total legend in my book , "" says dad Jamas. Meanwhile , evacuations are still ongoing ; more than 340 people have been airlifted to safety so far. And the crisis may not be over yet : The AP reports a flash flood warning is in effect starting Thursday. Hawaii News Now reports that power to Wainiha and Haena was cut Thursday so repairs can be made to a transmission line as crews work to restore full power service. It could be weeks before some roads reopen. ( This weekend was not Hamilton ' s first brush with heroism. )"
29,"Survivors are trying to pick up the pieces after the furious blaze that engulfed a $ 1.7 million-dollar Connecticut home yesterday , killing the parents and children of fashion marketing executive Madonna Badger , the New York Post reports. Her father , Lomer Johnson , had just landed his dream holiday-season job  one befitting his real white beard  as Santa Claus at Saks Fifth Avenue in New York. "" That  s all he ever wanted to be , "" a relative told the New York Times. "" He stopped shaving the day he retired. "" The relative added that Johnson and his wife ' s 49th anniversary would have been today. story continues below Badger ' s badly damaged house was torn down today after building department officials determined it was unsafe  little wonder considering reports emerging from the fire. One neighbor awoke to see a ball of flames in the sky. ... The velocity of the flames was unlike anything I  ve ever seen. It was just all over the house. "" Witnesses say Badger and her male friend , who the AP describes as a contractor working on the home , were led from the house , dazed , supported on both sides. Today , the Post notes that Badger looked "" devastated "" as she was released from the hospital. A relative of her estranged husband , Matthew Badger , says he is "" absolutely distraught. "" ( Read more house fire stories. )"
30,"A double tragedy in Harrisburg , Pa. : A 3-year-old girl died in a house fire believed to have been caused by a recharging hoverboard Friday night , and a firefighter was killed on his way to the scene by an allegedly drunk driver in a stolen car. Consumer Products Safety Commission spokesman Scott Wolfson tells NBC that the agency has investigated more than 60 fires linked to hoverboards in the last 18 months , and Ashanti Hughes is believed to be the first fatality. Two other children were critically injured in the Harrisburg blaze , PennLive reports. Witnesses say they saw one little girl jump from a second-story roof after flames engulfed the first floor. Another girl crawled onto the same roof and was rescued by firefighters. story continues below More than 500,000 hoverboards were recalled due to fire risk last year and fire officials say people should avoid using any of the recalled models. They also warn against leaving the self-balancing devices to charge overnight  and against charging them without having a fire extinguisher nearby. Khanyae Kendall , 19 , has been charged with crimes including aggravated assault by vehicle while DUI in the death of firefighter Dennis DeVoe. Police say she was driving a stolen car when she T-boned the father of four at an intersection as he was on his way to the blaze. ( This family sued Amazon after a faulty hoverboard burned their home down. )"
31,"A bang , a boom , houses shaking. Those were some of the descriptions reported by residents Sunday morning in sections of New Hampshire , and the cause as of early Monday remains a mystery. Per WMUR , people in dozens of towns across the central and southern parts of the state , as well as in border locations in southern Maine and northern Massachusetts , put in calls about the strange incident. Representatives from the US Geological Survey and Boston College ' s Weston Observatory say there wasn ' t any seismic activity recorded to indicate an earthquake , and the Federal Aviation Administration reported no military aircraft activity in the area on Sunday. story continues below One man from Weare , NH , describes the sound as a "" huge thump , like a very heavy person had landed on their heels on our second floor , "" adding , "" We called up to our son on the second floor , who replied , ' It wasn ' t me ! ' "" Another local tells WCAX that it sounded like her husband had "" dropped something in the garage. "" Multiple police departments in the southwest part of the state sent officers out to respond to the reports , though a spokesperson for the state ' s Department of Safety tells WMUR that state police were never called , and the state 911 hotline fielded just one report. Hundreds of people noted their experiences on the VolcanoDiscovery.com website. Still , there are hints on some of the possibilities behind the mystery. Geophysicists from the USGS tell the New York Times that New Hampshire is often hit with tiny earthquakes , and that even though no seismic activity was recorded in this case , that doesn ' t mean there wasn ' t one. One local who said he heard a "" loud boom , "" followed by his entire house rattling , is suspiciously eyeing the New Boston Space Force Station near his home ( US Space Force officials didn ' t reply to the Times for comment ) . It may even be that the cause isn ' t of this Earth : A Weston Observatory research scientist tells WCAX it ' s "" likely "" the odd event was caused by a meteor or other natural phenomenon. ( Read more New Hampshire stories. )"
32,"Ivanka Trump fired back Friday after Wichita State University canceled her planned speech at the WSU tech school ' s virtual graduation ceremony , the Hill reports. "" Our nation ' s campuses should be bastions of free speech , "" she tweeted along with a video of the speech she planned to give. "" Cancel culture and viewpoint discrimination are antithetical to academia. Listening to one another is important now more than ever ! "" Seems her speech was announced Thursday and canceled later that day after Jennifer Ray , associate professor of photo media , penned a letter urging the university to cancel her speech. The letter blazed through social media and had 487 signatures from alumni , students , and faculty before midnight , the Wichita Eagle reports. story continues below "" Ivanka Trump , obviously , represents her father ' s administration as one of his closest advisors , "" she wrote in the letter. "" To many Americans , that administration has come to signify the worst of our country , particularly in its recent actions toward those peacefully protesting against racist police brutality. "" In dismissing her , the university only said the Saturday commencement will focus "" more centrally on students "" and have a nursing graduate as speaker. Some Republicans are criticizing WSU , with the Guardian reporting that Rep. Ron Estes says he ' s "" disappointed "" and Sen. Tom Cotton saying "" the woke mob struck. "" As for Trump ' s speech , it focused largely on how America is grappling with the coronavirus pandemic. ( Read more Ivanka Trump stories. )"
33,"The Nepal earthquake also caused deaths in other countries , including dozens in Tibet  but Tibet didn ' t get the White House ' s condolences yesterday. During a press briefing , Press Secretary Josh Earnest noted that the US government offered its "" deepest condolences to  the families of those who died in Nepal , but also the families of those who died in India and Bangladesh. "" Similarly , a National Security Council spokesperson referred Saturday to "" widespread damage and loss of life in Nepal , India , and Bangladesh "" when talking about the quake , Politico reports. ( A recent Bangladesh report put that country ' s death toll at four ; the Business-Standard says Tibet ' s toll currently stands at 25. ) story continues below Tibet ' s autonomy , of course , is contested by the Chinese government , and Tibetan officials believe the region is being purposely excluded from these statements. "" Tibetan areas across the Nepalese border have been severely affected as well , "" says the Dalai Lama  s representative in Washington. "" We believe that all affected regions should be highlighted so that they receive the appropriate attention and relief support. "" Though President Obama has in the past officially recognized Tibet as part of China , he has also met with the Dalai Lama numerous times and has encouraged China to "" take steps to preserve the unique [ Tibetan ] culture. "" ( Read more Tibet stories. )"
34,"After 20 years and six Super Bowls with the New England Patriots , Tom Brady is set to join the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Insiders tell USA Today that the star quarterback , who announced Tuesday that he is leaving the Patriots , has agreed to a deal in principle with the Buccaneers , though it won ' t be finalized before the league year officially begins on Wednesday. Insiders say the 42-year-old ' s deal will be worth around $ 30 million a year. Brady  widely considered the greatest quarterback in league history  turns 43 in August and has said he wants to play until he is at least 45 , reports ESPN. story continues below According to NFL Network , Brady wasn ' t interested in a move to the Los Angeles Chargers because he wanted to stay on the East Coast out of "" family considerations. "" Analysts say the move from the AFC to the NFC will shake up both divisions , and makes the Buccaneers , who have the second-longest active playoff drought in the NFL , legitimate Super Bowl contenders. "" It wasn ' t just the division that changed overnight ; the whole NFL did , "" one NFC head coach tells Bleacher Report. "" He ' s going to be a nightmare for everyone he plays. "" The coach adds : "" I ' m guessing he ' ll want to prove that the Patriots won because of him. That ' s a dangerous thing for the rest of us. "" ( Read more Tom Brady stories. )"
35,"A small earthquake shook North Korea early Saturday , according to South Korean officials , raising fears that the country had carried out another nuclear test amid its escalating dispute with the US. The quake happened near where North Korea has carried out other nuclear tests , which have registered as small earthquakes , though opinions are split on the source of the latest quake , the Guardian reports. "" A key method is to look at the seismic waves or seismic acoustic waves and the latter can be detected in the case of a man-made earthquake , "" a South Korean meteorological official says. "" In this case we saw none. So as of now , we are categorizing this as a natural earthquake. "" story continues below China ' s official Xinhua news agency , however , says an explosion was the likely source of the quake , which China measured at 3.4 magnitude , the AP reports. The US Geological Survey says it measured the quake at 3.5 and it cannot confirm whether it was natural or not. China also announced Saturday that it is limiting petroleum exports to North Korea under the terms of a UN resolution passed after a nuclear test earlier this month , reports USA Today. At a rally in Alabama Friday night , President Trump mocked Kim Jong Un as "" Little Rocket Man "" and told supporters they had nothing to fear from North Korea , despite the country ' s threat to detonate a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific , reports the Washington Post. ( Read more North Korea stories. )"
36,""" It still haunts me. "" The line from 28-year-old Thai resident Suwanne Maliwan to Reuters expresses a common sentiment Thursday , the 15th anniversary of the Indian Ocean tsunami that claimed 230,000 lives. Maliwan , for instance , lost both her parents and five other relatives. "" Sometimes I dream that a wave is coming , "" she says. Vigils and memorials across Asia were commemorating the staggering loss of life in what was one of the world ' s deadliest natural disasters. A 9.1 magnitude earthquake off Sumatra island the morning after Christmas in 2004 triggered the tsunami and unleashed waves as high as 57 feet. story continues below Coastal areas of Thailand , Indonesia , India , Sri Lanka , and other countries were deluged. One of the first areas hit was Indonesia ' s Aceh province , notes CBS News. In fact , most of those killed were in Indonesia alone , where 170,000 deaths were registered. "" No words can describe our feelings when we tearfully saw thousands of corpses lying on this ground 15 years ago , "" said acting Aceh Gov. Nova Iriansyah at a ceremony in Sigli. "" And now , we can see how people in Aceh were able to overcome suffering and rise again , thanks to assistance from all Indonesians and from people all over the world. "" ( Read more tsunami stories. )"
37,"When the Ottoman ruler put out a request for bridge designs back in 1502 , one of those who responded was none other than Leonardo da Vinci. As it turns out , da Vinci didn ' t get the job , but his visionary design sketch survived. Now , MIT researchers have used that sketch to build a scale-model using the same materials that would have been available in that era  and they say da Vinci got it just right , per a release from MIT. As Live Science explains , this was no ordinary bridge design : If it were built , it would have been the longest bridge of its day at about 920 feet long. ( See a photo of the model and original sketch here. ) "" It ' s incredibly ambitious , "" says Karly Bast , who worked on the project as a grad student. "" It was about 10 times longer than typical bridges of that time. "" story continues below Bridges of the era typically used semicircular arches , but da Vinci opted for a single flattened arch , tall enough for a sailboat to pass underneath. The researchers used stone blocks to build their model , which was about 500 times smaller than the original design , and they determined it would have been held together by compression , not mortars or other fasteners. "" It ' s the power of geometry , "" says Bast. "" This is a strong concept. It was well thought out. "" The inventor also called for abutments that splayed outward for greater stability , likely because he knew the area was prone to earthquakes. A real-life version of the bridge exists in Norway , though that one makes use of modern material such as steel and concrete. The MIT project will be featured in a Nov. 13 program of NOVA on PBS. "" It would have been an ancient architectural marvel , "" writes Andrew Liszewski at Gizmodo. ( Read more Leonardo da Vinci stories. )"
38,"A man who took a video of himself after starting a fire that would go on to burn more than 150 square miles of land was sentenced to 20 years in prison and a $ 60 million fine , the AP reports. According to Reuters , Wayne Huntsman pleaded guilty to three counts of arson Friday for starting the 2014 King Fire in Northern California that took hundreds of firefighters a month to get under control. His sentence was increased because a number of firefighters were injured and 12 homes and dozens of other structures were destroyed. Thousands of residents were displaced by the fire. Huntsman originally pleaded not guilty to the charges. story continues below In September 2014 , a retired firefighter picked Huntsman up escaping the area of the blaze , the San Francisco Chronicle reports. Huntsman showed the man a video of himself standing between two fires. "" Listen , I got fire all around me , "" Huntsman says in the video. "" I ' m stuck in the middle , babe. "" The man made a recording of the video and turned it over to the authorities , who arrested Huntsman within days. The DA says Huntsman was trying to look like a hero in the video , but it appeared the fires were purposefully set because there were two of them and Huntsman seemed to be enjoying himself. Meanwhile , Huntsman ' s sister is accused of killing two young children , whose bodies were found in a storage locker in Redding , California , according to SFist. ( Read more wildfires stories. )"
39,"Lost power , cracked buildings , crumbled chimneys , broken water pipes  the 7.0 earthquake that rocked Anchorage Friday morning was , by one standard at least , its worst in 54 years. "" I think it ' s safe to say that , not measured in magnitude or location but in terms of how strong the ground itself shook during the earthquake , "" state seismologist Michael West tells CNN. That shaking began at roughly 8 : 30am and left a trail of damage that surprised even quake-savvy Alaskans. Bridges and roads suffered structural damage as portions of highway collapsed , over two dozen water pipes broke , about 70 people asked the city to cut off water due to flooding , jails were forced to run on generators , and hospitals closed everything but emergency rooms , per the Anchorage Daily News. story continues below "" It was very clear that this was something bigger than what we normally experience , "" says Anchorage Mayor Ethan Berkowitz. "" We live in earthquake country ... but this was a big one. "" Not only that , some 200 aftershocks struck in the following 12 hours  four measuring at least 4.0. Yet there were no fatalities , in part because the 25-mile-deep quake dissipated much of its energy before hitting the surface , NBC News reports. Building codes inspired by Alaska ' s "" Great 9.2 "" quake of 1964 also eased the blow : "" Had this happened somewhere else , you might have seen deaths , "" says a geophysics professor. One person who suffered ? Former Governor Sarah Palin : "" Our family is intact  house is not ... I imagine that  s the case for many , many others , "" she tweets. ( Meanwhile , a "" slow-moving disaster "" threatens a rail line and a freeway. )"
40,"El Nino is here for the first time since 2010 , according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  but it ' s too late and too weak to be much use where it ' s most needed. It won ' t provide "" much relief for drought-stricken California , as California ' s rainy season is winding down , "" Mike Halpert , deputy director of the NOAA ' s Climate Prediction Center , tells the LA Times , explaining that the Pacific Ocean weather pattern will only help drought-stricken areas if it persists into the next rainy season. Forecasters say this El Nino won ' t have much effect on US weather patterns at all , since it ' s arriving too late to create the usual wet , cool conditions , though it may bring temperatures up elsewhere in the world , reports Scientific American. story continues below The NOAA  which describes El Nino as an "" ocean-atmospheric phenomenon marked by warmer-than-average sea surface temperatures in the central Pacific Ocean ""  first spotted signs of the phenomenon a year ago , and Halpert tells the AP that experts aren ' t sure why it has taken so long to turn up. The agency says there is a 50 % to 60 % chance that this weak , late , and unusual El Nino might persist through the summer , which could lead to a decrease in the number of Atlantic hurricanes , though Halpert warns that 1992 ' s Hurricane Andrew struck during an El Nino summer. ( NOAA researchers say climate change isn ' t to blame for the California drought. )"
41,"What happens when a huge volcanic eruption happens under a massive sheet of ice ? A new discovery means scientists may soon get a chance to find out. Researchers investigating swarms of small earthquakes in 2010 and 2011 in western Antarctica believe they have spotted an active volcano rumbling under almost a mile of ice , NBC News reports. It ' s unlikely an eruption would have the power to punch through the ice , but scientists fear such an event could melt enough ice to accelerate the flow of Antarctica ' s ice sheet into the sea , further raising sea levels worldwide. story continues below When the team investigated a group of mountains near the quakes , "" we realized they are actually a chain of volcanoes that date younger as they go south and the earthquakes were south of the volcanoes , "" says the lead researcher , who also found a layer of ash from an eruption 8,000 years ago in the ice near the recent tremors. There ' s no way to know when the unnamed volcano will erupt again , but "" it can suddenly pop , and that would have a huge effect , "" a British Antarctic Survey expert tells the New Scientist ; heat from its magma may already be loosening the ice. ( Click to read about another volcanic discovery  this one from the year 1257. )"
42,"A helicopter pilot died Wednesday fighting one of hundreds of wildfires burning in California. Authorities say the Bell UH-1 helicopter crashed for unknown reasons while making water drops in a remote area near Coalinga , Fresno County , the Fresno Bee reports. The crash ignited yet another brush fire. Fast-moving fires have forced thousands of people in northern California to flee their homes , and Gov. Gavin Newsom has declared a state of emergency , the BBC reports. "" We are experiencing fires the likes of which we haven ' t seen in many , many years , "" the governor said Wednesday. He said at least 23 fires burning in the state are now considered major blazes. story continues below Cal Fire spokesman Chief Jeremy Rahn said Wednesday that a "" historic lightning siege "" of more than 11,000 strikes , combined with a heat wave , has caused 367 fires in recent days , the New York Times reports. Cal Fire officials say the LNU Lightning Complex group of fires west of Sacramento is threatening around 25,000 structures and is currently 0 % contained. The fires have forced evacuations in Vacaville , between Sacramento and San Francisco. Travis Air Force Base , around 10 miles south of the city , has ordered the evacuation of all "" non-mission essential personnel. "" In the eastern San Francisco Bay area , the SCU Lightning Complex cluster of fires is threatening thousands of buildings and has injured at least five people , the AP reports. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
43,"Byron McKaig was a devoted husband until the very end. The 81-year-old Anglican priest perished alongside his 90-year-old wife , Gladys , in central California ' s Lake Isabella wildfire last week , and a neighbor tells the Los Angeles Times that he appears to have died trying to protect his wife. Bill Johnson found their bodies next to a fence near the burning remains of their home. "" They were together , like he was blocking her from the fire , "" says Johnson. "" It made me sick because immediately I saw and knew exactly what had happened  that they were alive and ran out of this burning inferno and got stuck , and that was where they ended. "" Officials say the McKaigs were overcome by smoke , and they appear to have been the only people killed by the massive blaze , which destroyed around 200 homes , KPCC reports. story continues below The fire is still only 40 % contained , and authorities warn that there could be more destruction if winds blow it back toward populated areas. "" There ' s still more threats out there , "" fire Chief Brian Marshall tells the AP. "" This is going to go down as the most destructive wildfire in Kern County history. "" He says the residents of the communities surrounding Lake Isabella , including many elderly people , had little warning when the fire suddenly swept in on Thursday and some of them barely escaped with their lives. Weather.com reports that the fire , which authorities hope to have fully contained by Thursday , has become so huge that the blaze and plumes of smoke are clearly visible in images from space. ( One odd new tool in the study of wildfires : rattlesnakes. )"
44,"Ruth Bader Ginsburg has been making headlines lately , from her proclamations that America can handle gay marriage to inspiring a University of Maryland student ' s elaborate upper-arm tattoo. Yesterday the Supreme Court justice cleared up a more sopoforic scandal that ' s been circulating : her alleged nap during President Obama ' s State of the Union address in January. At a Smithsonian Associates event last night featuring Ginsburg and colleague Antonin Scalia , RBG copped to dropping off , which she admitted "" I often do , "" per CNN. "" The audience for the most part is awake because they are bobbing up and down and we sit there , stone faced , "" she said. "" But we ' re not , at least I was not , 100 % sober. "" She said that at a dinner before the SOTU , "" Justice Kennedy brought in  it was an Opus something or other , very fine California wine.  I vowed this year , just sparkling water , stay away from the wine , but in the end , the dinner was so delicious , it needed wine. "" story continues below It ' s not the first time Ginsburg has succumbed to the SOTU sandman : She once told the Washington Post that it was ( again ) a "" very good California wine "" ( again ) provided by Justice Kennedy that caused her to doze off at the 2013 address , as per the Hill. No matter what state of consciousness she ' s in , Ginsburg has solid support from her fellow Supremes , even if they might be starting to fall down on the job. "" David Souter , when he was on the court , he was on one side and he had an acute sense of when I was about to [ nod off ] , "" Ginsburg told the panel , per the Blaze. "" Now I have Justice Kennedy on one side , Justice Breyer , and they ' re sort of timid about it. "" Meanwhile , Justice Scalia said at last night ' s event that he avoids the SOTU snoozefest altogether , admitting he stopped going years ago , per CNN. ( Looks like Ginsburg ' s recent heart surgery isn ' t keeping her down. )"
45,"A firefighter put his reptile-handling experience to good use when he rescued a 6-foot-long python from a burning home in western Michigan last night. Muskegon firefighter Scott Hemmelsbach told the Muskegon Chronicle that he reluctantly agreed to enter the two-story , smoke-filled house to retrieve the snake. He says he cradled the "" weighty "" snake before carrying it to safety. "" It was trying to crawl up the side of his terrarium , "" Hemmelsbach said. "" His face was pushed up on the screen and trying to get out. There was a lot of smoke and he was trapped. "" story continues below The firefighter said he learned how to handle snakes while he was in high school , where he helped showcase them. "" I ' d take them around and show them to the kids in the elementary classes , "" he said. When Hemmelsbach reached the python inside the home , he gingerly handled him so not to scare the reptile. "" I removed the screen off the top and knew to approach it by coming up behind his head. He became very active , and I was glad because that meant that he was OK. "" The fire significantly damaged the home , and the cause is under investigation. "" I would do it for any creature , "" Hemmelsbach said. "" I ' m just glad it had a happy ending. "" ( Click to read about another unusual animal rescue. )"
46,"Five people were killed early Wednesday when a public housing high-rise caught fire in Minneapolis , the Star-Tribune reports. Four others were injured in blaze , which started on the 14th floor of a 24-story building in the Cedar-Riverside neighborhood around 4am. "" Very tragic night at the beginning of a holiday weekend , "" Fire Chief John Fruetel said at a press conference. There was no word yet on victims , but the 191-unit building , which is run by the Minneapolis Public Housing Authority for low-income residents , is at full capacity and most units are occupied by either one or two adults. story continues below WCCO says many residents are seniors or have disabilities , and notes that two of the victims are said to have been elderly. Authorities said one victim was found in a stairwell and later died at a hospital and the others were found in different units on the 14th story. No word yet on the cause of the fire. ( Read more Minneapolis stories. )"
47,"California hasn ' t stopped shaking after its strongest earthquake in 20 years. The 6.4 magnitude quake that hit the Mojave Desert Thursday morning was followed by at least 159 aftershocks of magnitude 2.5 and higher , including six higher than magnitude 4 , says United States Geological Survey seismologist Robert Graves. He says the number is higher than normal , but not unprecedented , CNN reports. California Institute of Technology seismologist Lucy Jones says the quake will probably only have a "" minimal "" effect on the San Andreas Fault , but the region should still expect more aftershocks and possibly a larger quake , reports the Los Angeles Times. "" There is about a 1 in 20 chance that this location will be having an even bigger earthquake in the next few days , that we have not yet seen the biggest earthquake of the sequence , "" she says. story continues below The quake , which was felt as far away as Las Vegas and Phoenix , hit near the town of Ridgecrest , around 150 miles northeast of Los Angeles. Kern County Fire Chief David Witt says the quake caused multiple injuries and at least two house fires as well as gas leaks and cracked roads in the town of 28,000 , the AP reports. Gov. Gavin Newsom has declared a state of emergency for the county. The quake was the strongest in the region since a 7.1 quake on October 16 , 1999. Jones says there was an "" extremely quiet abnormal time "" for 20 years. "" The long term average is probably once every five or 10 years somewhere in southern California , "" she says. KTLA reports that the earthquake did not trigger alerts in Los Angeles because shaking in the area was below magnitude 5. Officials say they plan to lower the early warning threshold for the ShakeAlertLA app. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
48,"Canada broke its 84-year-old temperature record by nearly 3 degrees Sunday , when a temperature of just under 115 degrees Fahrenheit was recorded in the village of Lytton , British Columbia. It was then beaten twice more in subsequent days. Lytton recorded a temperature of 117.5 degrees on Monday , followed by a new all-time-high temperature for the country of 121.3 degrees on Tuesday , report CNN and the BBC. It ' s a testament to the brutal heat wave now easing in western parts of Canada and the US , which has left "" disastrous consequences for families and for communities , "" British Columbia Premier John Horgan tells the BBC. At least 233 deaths were reported in the province from Friday through Monday , which is about 100 more than usual for a four-day period , CNN reports. story continues below Chief Coroner Lisa Lapointe describes "" a significant increase in deaths "" tied to extreme heat. The CBC notes only a third of BC residents use air conditioning , according to a 2020 BC Hydro survey. Spikes in sudden deaths have been reported in Vancouver , which recorded a temperature of 101.5 degrees on Monday , and surrounding cities. Simi Heer , director of public affairs for the Vancouver Police Department , said police officers had already responded to 20 sudden-death calls on Tuesday by 1 : 45pm , "" with more than a dozen others waiting for police to be dispatched. "" CNN notes many of the deceased are senior citizens , according to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. The heat wave is also leaving the area under risk of floods and forest fires , per the CBC , which notes forests are drying out while mountaintops that never melt are thawing. ( Read more Canada stories. )"
49,"The AP has tracked down the nun seen in an iconic photo of this week ' s devastating earthquake in central Italy. Marjana Lleshi , 35 , says she thought she would die when the Amatrice convent she was sleeping in collapsed early Wednesday , killing three other nuns and four of the elderly women they cared for and leaving her trapped. She says she texted "" adieu "" to friends and family in her native Albania  and then texted them to say she was alive after she was pulled from the rubble by a young man who helped one of the elderly women at the convent. She says she still hopes to travel to Rome next week for the canonization of Mother Teresa , another Albanian nun. story continues below A 4.7-magnitude aftershock , the strongest of hundreds since early Wednesday , hit the area early Friday , hindering rescue operations but causing no additional reports of deaths or injuries. Italy has declared a state of emergency in the quake-ravaged region , where the death toll has now hit 267 , CNN reports. The emergency measures include canceling taxes in the towns of Amatrice , Accumoli , Arquata del Tronto , and Pescara del Tronto , reports the Guardian , which notes that as the dust settles , Italians are beginning to ask why the death toll is so high in an area long known to be earthquake-prone. ( Read more Italy stories. )"
50,"A fourth child died today after a day care fire in Houston last week , as police investigate whether the woman who operated it out of her home left the kids unsupervised while she went shopping , reports KTRK-TV. Three other toddlers were injured , and two of them remain hospitalized. "" There ' s no question she went shopping , "" a law enforcement source tells the Houston Chronicle. "" They ' re trying to determine exactly when she returned , although it was a very close proximity ( in time ) to the fire. "" story continues below Two witnesses say the woman , 22-year-old Jessica Tata , arrived home with groceries and immediately began screaming for help when she entered the house. Tata hasn ' t been charged , and she was briefly hospitalized for injuries she got while pulling the kids out. Her brother denies she ever left the house. All the kids were between 18 months and 3 years old. AOL News has a roundup here. ( Read more Houston stories. )"
51,"More than 1,600 firefighters fought an uncontrollable wildfire Sunday in California ' s Santa Clarita Valley , an inferno that fire officials say grew three times larger over the weekend due to hot , arid conditions and winds up to 20mph , NBC News and the Los Angeles Times report. More than 33,000 acres have now become enveloped in flames in what ' s become known as the Sand fire , said to be only 10 % contained by Monday morning. About 1,500 mandatory evacuations remain in place after winds gave the fire new life Sunday , even though initially some residents were to return to their homes then. "" All the experience we ' ve had with fires is out the window , "" Los Angeles County Deputy Fire Chief John Tripp tells the AP. At least 18 homes were destroyed over the weekend , and a body was found in a burned-out car on Saturday , though officials haven ' t mentioned the cause of death. Smoke could be spotted from as far away as Las Vegas , around 270 miles away. story continues below Flames were said to leap up to 50 feet high , with authorities noting the blaze raced forward "" like a freight train , "" per the AP. In addition to the fire-friendly weather , California ' s drought conditions and about 60 years without a big blaze left the area vulnerable to a wildfire , Los Angeles County Supervisor Michael Antonovich said Saturday. "" Five years ago , if we had a similar fire , we would have probably caught [ it ] at the ridge , "" Los Angeles County Fire Department Chief Daryl Osby told reporters , adding via the AP : "" For this time of year , it ' s the most extreme fire behavior I ' ve seen in my 32-year career. "" And three other fires so far this season in Los Angeles County have fire officials concerned. "" We are in July , "" Tripp tells the Times. "" We ' ve never had four major fires within six weeks in June and July. "" One local who was evacuated lamented to the Monterey Herald , "" I hope I don ' t have to rebuild my house. I ' m 66. "" ( The Pacific Standard says the fire is an omen of "" things to come. "" )"
52,"More than 50,000 people in Port Neches , Texas , and surrounding towns spent Thanksgiving away from home after officials decided not to lift a mandatory evacuation order. The order was put in place after an explosion early Wednesday at the Texas Petroleum Chemical plant around 80 miles east of Houston was followed by another massive explosion later in the day. Jefferson County Judge Jeff Branick , who issued the evacuation order for people in a 4-mile radius of the plant , said Thursday that firefighters have contained a blaze at the site but he was not convinced it was safe for residents to return , CNN reports. Water cannons are being used to keep chemical storage tanks cool and prevent more explosions. story continues below Branick says he lives near the plant and the first blast blew in his front and back doors. Officials say the blast occurred in an area of the plant that makes the chemical butadiene , a known carcinogen , but there has not been widespread contamination. Environmental Protection Agency spokesman Adam Adams says volatile organic compounds have been detected by teams monitoring air pollution , but not above the five parts per million "" action level , "" the AP reports. Branick says officials will meet early Friday to discuss lifting the evacuation order , the Houston Chronicle reports. "" First and foremost , my job as county judge is to keep our citizens safe , "" he says. "" I will not lift the evacuation order until such time that I feel it is sufficiently safe to return. "" ( Read more Texas stories. )"
53,"A rare voter fraud suspect has been arrested in Iowa , though Donald Trump is unlikely to accuse her of trying to rig the election : Terri Lynn Rote , who was arrested Thursday on suspicion of voting twice , is a registered Republican , the Des Moines Register reports. Police say the 55-year-old cast two early voting ballots in Polk County , which includes Des Moines. Two other people suspected of voting twice were reported to authorities , but have yet to be arrested. County auditor Jamie Fitzgerald says these are the first cases of alleged voter fraud that he can remember in 12 years. story continues below "" I think it shows that our voting system works in Iowa , that we ' re able to catch it , "" Fitzgerald tells the Register , adding that although tensions are running high before the election , there is still a chance that the double votes could have been mistakes. The Blaze reports that Rote was an early Trump supporter who told a reporter in early February that she was planning to caucus for him in Des Moines. Early voting began in Iowa on Sept. 29. ( Rudy Giuliani says "" dead people generally vote for Democrats. "" )"
54,"New Jersey man Paul Caneiro didn ' t try to set his own house on fire with his wife and children inside , his lawyer says  and he is also innocent of "" any other charge , "" which would include the murders of his brother and his family. Lawyer Robert Honecker Jr. says Caneiro was at home when his brother was shot and his Colts Neck mansion was set ablaze , the New York Times reports. "" He loved him , "" Honecker says. "" And he would not do his brother any harm. "" Caneiro , 51 , has been charged with aggravated arson in the predawn fire at his own home Tuesday , but has not been charged or named as a suspect in his brother ' s case. Police say Keith Caneiro , 50 , his wife , Jennifer , and their two children were the victims of "" homicidal violence. "" story continues below Paul Caneiro is accused of using gasoline to start fires at his own home , where firefighters put out blazes at the back of the home and on a garage door. A neighbor tells the Asbury Park Press that he last saw Caneiro at noon Tuesday , around 30 minutes before the Colts Neck fire broke out around 10 miles away. The Press estimates that the drive between the two homes would take 20 minutes. "" They were great neighbors , very friendly. This is unexpected news , "" the neighbor says. The brothers managed several businesses together , including the Square One technology firm , NJ.com reports. ( Read more on the case here. )"
55,"It started with a small , illegal campfire. Now an area the size of San Francisco has been scorched in a deadly blaze ripping through California ' s Monterey County since July 22. State fire officials announced the cause of the blaze , dubbed the Soberanes Fire , in a closed area of Garrapata State Park near the Big Sur coast on Tuesday , though they still aren ' t sure who started it , report Reuters and KPCC. A man helping to fight the larger blaze died when his bulldozer rolled over on July 26. The blaze has also destroyed 57 homes , destroyed or damaged 15 other buildings , and led to hundreds of evacuations in a 67-square-mile area , reports the Los Angeles Times. It was 25 % contained as of Tuesday. story continues below Some 5,500 firefighters have only been able to draw containment lines around 18 % of the fire as they battle "" pretty extreme , steep terrain , "" shifting winds , and an "" unusually active "" fire at night , says a Cal Fire rep. "" Most fires , we get a little bit of moisture recovery and humidity at night , but , unfortunately , that has not been the case on this entire fire so far , so we haven  t had that slower fire growth , "" he says. Humidity levels at night have been "" incredibly low "" at about 5 % . A separate 2,185-acre fire sparked Saturday has also destroyed five structures , including three homes , in Fresno County and is threatening 400 other structures , officials say. That fire was at least 30 % contained on Tuesday. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
56,"For three days , Giorgia Galassi and Vincenzo Forti sat on a couch  but this was no extreme binge-watching marathon. Buried in Italy ' s Hotel Rigopiano after an avalanche struck on Jan. 18 , the couple huddled together , their heads less than two feet from the collapsed ceiling , and ate snow before rescuers pulled them out by their feet on Saturday , report the New York Times and the AP. Galassi says their survival was "" truly a miracle. "" Only nine people survived inside the hotel  in addition to three puppies  while two others were found alive in a car outside , per CNN. Officials say 29 others died. Autopsies conducted on six bodies show some victims were crushed immediately , while others died of hypothermia and asphyxiation , a prosecutor says. story continues below Francesca Bronzi ' s boyfriend , who was celebrating his birthday , was among those killed. But Bronzi was luckily confined to a small cavity near Galassi , 25 , and Forti , 22 , who helped boost her morale. The couple recalls guests gathering in the hotel lobby after earthquakes shook the building. Then the avalanche struck , burying the hotel in 60,000 tons of snow , rock , and uprooted trees. "" It all started from a rumble. And then everything collapsed "" in "" a roar , "" Forti says. "" We couldn ' t see anything , it was total darkness , "" adds Galassi. "" I don ' t think I have ever prayed so much in my life. "" Officials are now investigating the response to the avalanche ; the AP reports rescuers were delayed because a call for help was initially interpreted as a prank. ( Read more avalanche stories. )"
57,""" You would think that the deepest part of the ocean would be one of the quietest places on Earth , "" says NOAA research oceanographer Robert Dziak , but it ' s not so. NOAA , with the help of partner scientists , recently listened in on the deepest point of the ocean and found what a press release calls a "" cacophony of sounds. "" Some of those sounds were natural ( the moans of baleen whales , a typhoon that passed overhead , earthquakes , and , per the Coast Guard , underwater volcanoes ) while others were created by humans ( ship propellers and , per LiveScience , submarines and "" underwater construction projects "" ) . The agency wanted to determine how noisy it is down there in order to establish a baseline , so that , as human-created noise continues to increase , future scientists can see if the noise level at the bottom of the ocean is also increasing  and , if so , what effect that increase might be having on marine animals that use sound to communicate , find their way around , and find food. story continues below In order to monitor the ambient noise at the bottom of the ocean ( which you can listen to here ) , a ceramic hydrophone encased in titanium was dropped to the ocean floor  in the Challenger Deep , an underground trough in the Mariana Trench near Micronesia that is "" deep enough to hold Mount Everest "" at more than 7 miles  where it recorded for 23 days in July. Scientists know human-created noise has been growing for decades now. Even so , the press release says they were "" surprised by how much they heard , "" and Dziak tells the Seattle Times , "" This should be one of the quietest places in the world , but it was a lot noisier than we expected. "" As it turns out , he tells the Christian Science Monitor now , "" Sound doesn  t get as weak as you think it does even that far from the source. "" "" I was surprised by just how cleanly we can record whales , ships , and all sorts of activity taking place at the surface , "" he adds to Gizmodo. ( The mystery of a puzzling ocean buzz may have finally been solved. )"
58,"The Kansas City Star has apologized for decades of coverage in which the city ' s Black residents were treated as "" invisible ""  unless they were involved in crimes. In an essay , "" The Truth in Black and White , "" editor Mike Fannin acknowledges that for much of its 140-year history , the city ' s most influential newspaper "" disenfranchised , ignored , and scorned generations of Black Kansas Citians. "" Fannin says reporters dug deep into the paper ' s archives and compared coverage of critical events with that in the Black press , the Hill reports. The Star was a "" white newspaper produced by white reporters and editors for white readers and advertisers , "" and "" negative portrayals of Black Kansas Citians buttressed stereotypes and played a role in keeping the city divided , "" he writes. story continues below "" Reporters were frequently sickened by what they found  decades of coverage that depicted Black Kansas Citians as criminals living in a crime-laden world , "" writes Fannin. "" They felt shame at what was missing : the achievements , aspirations and milestones of an entire population routinely overlooked , as if Black people were invisible. "" He says the paper started to diversify in the civil rights era , but missteps continued , including in 1977 , when the Star and sister paper the Kansas City Times focused on damage to a country club after a devastating flood , not the 25 city residents , including eight Black people , who died. Fannin says the star has accelerated changes already underway , including hiring a more diverse staff , the New York Times reports. "" We need a spectrum of voices to represent our entire community , "" he writes. "" And we occasionally just need good advice. "" ( Read more Kansas City stories. )"
59,"The San Joaquin River ' s problems run pretty deep , so much so that it ' s the most endangered in the country , according to the American Rivers conservation group. The group says that even before California ' s drought hit , the state ' s second-longest river had "" lots of problems from dams , levees , and water diversions "" and has now reached a "" tipping point "" where better water management is urgently needed and tough decisions need to be made , Scientific American reports. story continues below The river and its delta are a crucial fish habitat , and a source of drinking water for 23 million Californians , but it is "" really compromised by the low quality and quantity , "" the group says. Much of the water is used for irrigation by farmers upstream , and the group says it is calling for "" better water management regimes so that there is enough water for farms and fish. "" Some 60 miles of the river have been periodically dry for decades , and the drought has put restoration projects on hold , reports the Fresno Bee. Other rivers on American Rivers ' endangered list include the Upper Colorado River and New Mexico ' s Gila River. LiveScience , which notes that 65 % of the country ' s drinking water comes compliments of rivers , has the top 10. ( Read more San Joaquin River stories. )"
60,"Venice has faced extraordinary flooding this week , with the mayor blaming climate change for the super-high tides  which is why what happened in the city ' s regional council gathering Tuesday is making waves. CNN reports the council ' s chambers in Ferro Fini Palace , located on the Grand Canal , flooded for the first time during a late-night meeting as the group was discussing the regional budget for 2020. What was most unusual about the timing of the waters that rushed in : It happened right after conservative party members turned down proposals to combat global warming , according to Democratic Party Councilor Andrea Zanoni. "" The League of [ Veneto regional president Luca ] Zaia voted against our amendments against climate change , "" and "" two minutes "" later the flooding began , wrote Zanoni on Facebook , including pictures and detailing everything that was submerged. story continues below Zanoni says rejected measures included funding renewable sources and to reducing the effects of plastics. "" Zaia ' s budget does not contain any concrete action to combat climate change , "" he wrote. "" If the voters of the Veneto continue to close their eyes , the League of Zaia will bring us all underwater. "" A council rep confirms the chambers flooded during budget talks , but council chief Roberto Ciambetti , a member of the far-right League party , scoffed at Zanoni ' s claims , calling them "" propaganda "" and noting the council has done plenty to address climate change , including spending over $ 1 trillion over the past few years to fight air pollution. "" To say that we do nothing is a lie , "" he said. CBS News cites a study that notes about 300 million people worldwide will be affected by coastal flooding by 2050 as sea levels rise , with the situation worsening if carbon emissions aren ' t cut back. ( Read more Venice stories. )"
61,""" Don ' t be scared. Don ' t even be worried. "" That was Felix Salmon ' s advice on Fusion after computer glitches darkened the New York Stock Exchange , took the Wall Street Journal offline , and grounded United flights. But today on Medium , Zeynep Tufekci writes that while she gets Salmon ' s point that we should be breathing easy because yesterday ' s events weren ' t cyberterrorism , we should be even more concerned over the real cause : Our "" software sucks. "" She notes the many multilayered legacy systems still in existence that companies keep putting metaphorical duct tape on instead of totally revamping. Tufekci pays special attention to this problem , noting that one of her jobs in college involved getting such software to work on newer machines. story continues below "" The sane solution would have been to port the whole system to newer machines , fully , with new source code , "" she writes. But time and money constraints prevented that , "" so I wrote more code that intervened between the old programs and the old database , and added some options that the management wanted. It was a lousy fix. "" She adds that while these quick fixes may work for a while , "" every new layer adds more vulnerability. We are building skyscraper favelas in code  in earthquake zones. "" Add to these creaky infrastructures a refusal on companies ' parts to prioritize maintenance , and Tufekci believes that what she calls "" software sucks syndrome "" will do us in faster than "" a Big Mean Attack of Cyberterrorists. "" Read her full piece. ( Read more software stories. )"
62,"The first victim identified in the Grenfell Tower fire in London has a poignant back story : Mohammad al-Haj Ali is a 23-year-old refugee from Syria who fled the war-torn city of Daraa three years ago. According to the Telegraph , the civil engineering student at the University of West London was trapped in his apartment on the 14th floor of the 24-story building after getting separated from his older brother , Omar. His brother made it out of Grenfell and was being treated for smoke inhalation , but not Mohammad. "" He survived Assad , he survived the war , only to be killed in a tower block in London , "" says a friend. story continues below Officials have confirmed that 17 people have died so far in the massive blaze that consumed the public-housing tower Tuesday night , though , officials believe the death toll could rise into the hundreds. As for the reports that residents fruitlessly complained about fire safety concerns , the Guardian has some more specifics : Among other things , they complained about the placement of pipes and boilers , the absence of a fire-alarm or sprinkler system , and piles of trash in common areas. ( Read more fire stories. )"
63,"Tropical Storm Dorian is threatening Puerto Rico with a direct hit at near-hurricane force on Wednesday and forecasters say it could strengthen further as it approaches the US mainland. The storm is expected to pass over or near Puerto Rico , with landslides , widespread flooding , and power outages possible in what is expected to be the first major test of emergency preparedness since Hurricane Maria devastated the island in 2017 , reports the AP. The National Hurricane Center ' s 11am ET public advisory stated that "" maximum sustained winds have increased to near 70 mph with higher gusts. Dorian is forecast to become a hurricane later today and continue strengthening during the next few days ""  possibly to a Category 3 hurricane as it approaches Florida , reports NBC News. story continues below Trump posted a tweet Wednesday assuring that "" We are tracking closely tropical storm Dorian as it heads , as usual , to Puerto Rico. FEMA and all others are ready , and will do a great job. "" He added a jab : "" When they do , let them know it , and give them a big Thank You - Not like last time. That includes from the incompetent Mayor of San Juan ! "" A couple hours later came this followup : "" Puerto Rico is one of the most corrupt places on earth. Their political system is broken and their politicians are either Incompetent or Corrupt. Congress approved Billions of Dollars last time , more than anyplace else has ever gotten , and it is sent to Crooked Pols. No good ! .... ... And by the way , I  m the best thing that  s ever happened to Puerto Rico ! "" ( Read more Puerto Rico stories. )"
64,"If you ' ve lately found yourself wondering when the worst drought North America has suffered occurred , here ' s your answer : 1934. At least , as far as the last millennium goes. In a new NASA study , scientists say that a combination of atmospheric conditions ( a high pressure ridge off the West Coast that blocked wet weather ) and dust storms ( the product of grass-eviscerating activities like overfarming and overgrazing that left topsoil susceptible to wind ) culminated in the most severe drought in the past 1,000 years. In fact , the Dust Bowl drought of 1934 was so bad that it was 30 % worse than the next most severe drought , which occurred in 1580 , reports Nature. Scientists drew this conclusion using an analysis of tree rings between the years 1000 and 2005. story continues below The 1934 drought extended across 71.6 % of Western North America , while the extent of 2012 ' s drought didn ' t quite reach 60 % . As io9 reports , drought led to 14 dust storms in 1932 and 38 in 1933 , but farmers kept working the land , expecting rain to return. "" As it turns out , the successive dust storms were making the droughts even worse. "" NASA explains why : "" Dust clouds reflect sunlight and block solar energy from reaching the surface. That prevents evaporation that would otherwise help form rain clouds , meaning that the presence of the dust clouds themselves leads to less rain. "" While the agricultural practices that led to those dust storms are no longer used today , scientists say the risk of droughts is only going up , and that agricultural producers will need to adapt accordingly. ( The latest drought , meanwhile , is actually causing the West to rise. )"
65,"A Michigan gay rights activist and former Citizen of the Year has been charged with setting his home ablaze in what was first investigated as a hate crime. The 2017 fire killed five pets , the Detroit News reports. Nikki Joly , a transgender man , had received death threats prior to the fire , and investigators determined that the cause of the blaze was arson. More than a year later , Joly was arrested , but police haven ' t put forth a motive and his lawyer says , "" It doesn  t make sense. "" The house was a rental , and was insured by its owner. A police report said two people who worked with Joly at the Jackson Pride Center said Joly , 54 , had been upset that the issue of gay rights was receiving less attention , but one of them says her statement was misinterpreted and she didn ' t hear Joly say such a thing. And Joly ' s lawyer adds , "" There was plenty of media coverage already [ for gay rights activism ] before the fire. "" A hearing is scheduled for March 8. story continues below "" It  s embarrassing , "" one gay rights activist in Jackson says. "" How do you do it to the community you have put so much effort into helping ? "" Joly had just achieved a series of local victories for gay rights residents , per the News : He ' d organized the city ' s first gay festival , opened its first gay community center , and helped win an anti-discrimination ordinance  which had been rejected for 18 years running. The Jackson newspaper named him Citizen of the Year. Joly ' s case has drawn comparisons to that of actor Jussie Smollett , who is accused of a hate crime hoax in Chicago. "" Real hate crimes are on the rise , "" an academic at Oakland University tells the Detroit Free Press. "" But as these crimes increase and become publicized , it  s not surprising to me that people would take the opportunity to use this to their advantage and fabricate hate crimes. "" ( Smollett ' s TV dad recently defended him. )"
66,"Ever wonder what near space sounds like ? The mystery is solved thanks to a NASA balloon experiment that captured atmospheric infrasound 22 miles above Earth. Infrasound , at frequencies below 20 hertz , is undetected to the human ear , but becomes audible when sound waves are sped up. Sensors on a helium balloon let loose above New Mexico and Arizona in August managed to record hours of audio , including stratospheric signals researchers say they ' ve never heard before , at altitudes of up to 123,000 feet , never reached by such an experiment. The noise , which you can listen to here , sounds like various whistles and hisses. Or as grad student Daniel Bowman of the University of North Carolina tells LiveScience : "" It sounds kind of like The X-Files. "" story continues below "" There haven ' t been acoustic recordings in the stratosphere for 50 years , "" Bowman , the experiment lead , says. "" Surely , if we place instruments up there , we will find things we haven ' t seen before. "" Experts say the noises likely came from several sources : ocean waves , wind turbulence , gravity waves , air turbulence , vibrations from the balloon cable , and a wind farm the balloon flew over. A second balloon experiment this year could offer further insight and capture more intriguing sounds. LiveScience notes interest in atmospheric infrasound as a means of detecting nuclear explosions was high in the 1960s , before ground-based sensors became commonplace. However , scientists have more recently explored the idea of sending infrasound sensors to Venus and Mars to monitor weather or earthquakes. ( Thanks to NASA , Mercury has a new crater. )"
67,"The second hurricane to hit the Gulf Coast in less than three weeks is "" every bit as bad as predicted , "" according to the Pensacola News Journal , whose hometown is swamped. Nearly three feet of water covers streets in downtown Pensacola , Fla. , which endured hours of rain before and after Hurricane Sally made landfall early Wednesday , per WJXT. More than 18 inches of rain had fallen by 1am , according to the National Weather Service , which issued a flash flood emergency. Before 2am , the police department noted road issues were "" too numerous to list. "" Escambia County authorities were undertaking water rescues in the Bristol Park area as of 9 : 15am. In neighboring Santa Rosa County , Public Safety Director Brad Baker warned that "" if you are trapped in your house and the water is rising , please call 911. "" story continues below The hurricane , downgraded to a Category 1 , is moving at just 3mph , "" or about as fast as a person can walk , "" per WJXT. "" It ' s just a nightmare , "" says David Eversole , a National Weather Service forecaster in Mobile , Ala. , which has also been hit hard. "" It just keeps pounding and pounding and pounding the area with tropical rain and just powerful winds. "" At least 50 people were rescued from homes in Orange Beach , Ala. , per WJXT. More than 500,000 customers are without power in Alabama and Florida alone , per CNN. The Hurricane Center warns "" historic and catastrophic flooding is unfolding , "" with "" widespread moderate to major river flooding "" also expected. The storm is expected to move across southeastern Alabama and the Florida Panhandle through early Thursday. Some areas could see up to 35 inches of rain , per USA Today. ( Read more hurricane stories. )"
68,"San Francisco ' s 58-story Millennium Tower has sunk 17 inches and tilted 14 inches to the northwest since building started in 2006 , reports 60 Minutes. It ' s a well-publicized fact thanks to numerous lawsuits from residents , including Joe Montana. Yet it makes the latest sign of its flaws no less "" breathtaking , "" per the San Francisco Chronicle. Footage aired Sunday on 60 Minutes shows numerous cracks in the skyscraper ' s basement , accompanied by stress gauges that measure their growth. Though Curbed notes the tower passed a review of its seismic integrity in July , "" there ' s enough of them , a spiderweb of cracks , that you have [ to ] be concerned about what ' s going on underneath , "" says Jerry Dodson , an engineer and lawyer who owns a condo on the Millennium Tower ' s 42nd floor. story continues below Since developer Millennium Partners notified residents of the faults in 2016 , some say they ' ve moved out , selling their condos at losses in the millions ; others are still waiting for a fix. The most likely one would involve securing the tower , built on a foundation 80 feet deep in sand , into bedrock , per the Chronicle. But it ' s not clear who would hand over up to $ 150 million necessary for the fix. In addition to lawsuits from residents , Millennium Partners is currently involved in litigation with the nearby Transbay Terminal , which it blames for causing the land beneath the tower to sink. Transbay officials say the tower  which is sinking 1.5 to 2 inches per year , according to one estimate  had already sunk 10 inches before construction on the terminal began , per 60 Minutes. ( Read more Millennium Tower stories. )"
69,"When purchasing a home , Eric Holthaus looked for "" the smallest lawn I could find. "" It ' ll mean less work , though not as it relates to mowing , since Holthaus plans to "" rip out my grass lawn as soon as possible. "" He suggests you do the same. "" It ' s time to culturally stigmatize the classic over-watered , over-fertilized , over-mowed American lawn "" because "" lawns are awful for the planet , "" Holthaus writes in a Grist op-ed. While he mentions certain lawn benefits  they reduce urban heat and trap small amounts of carbon dioxide  he sees more disadvantages in the water used to keep them green , the chemicals used to eliminate weeds , and the pollution from a lawnmower. It might seem a small issue when considering one lawn. But Curbed reports lawns cover 2 % of the continental US  an area the size of Nebraska  and three times more land than corn. story continues below Grass therefore tops corn as the largest irrigated crop , and maintaining it isn ' t cheap. "" Americans spend more than $ 36 billion every year on lawn care , four-and-a-half times more than the annual budget of the Environmental Protection Agency , "" Holthaus writes. He plans to replace his grass with native plants  superior to turf grass in terms of environmental impact  and fruit trees. But "" almost anything is better than a grass lawn. "" Certain cities , especially those affected by drought , are well aware , with residents offered incentives to replace grass with rock or native vegetation. This , according to Patrick Sisson at Curbed , is "" fueling nationwide trends towards native plantings , drought-tolerant landscaping , and even raising more crops as a path to reducing emissions , "" though "" the vast monoculture of perfectly mowed front yards  isn ' t going anywhere soon. "" ( Read more lawn stories. )"
70,"For Russia-linked Twitter accounts and bots linked to Russian propaganda campaigns , last week ' s horrific school shooting in Florida was just another opportunity to sow division among Americans , security researchers say. Within an hour of the shooting , hundreds of automated Twitter accounts with suspected Russian links began sending out tweets with hashtags like #NRA and #guncontrolnow , seeking to spread what analysts call "" divisive propaganda "" on both sides of the issue , the New York Times reports. "" This is pretty typical for them , to hop on breaking news like this , "" says Jonathon Morgan at New Knowledge , a firm that tries to track disinformation campaigns. "" The bots focus on anything that is divisive for Americans. Almost systematically. "" story continues below After a couple of days , some bots switched to the #falseflag hashtag , pushing theories that the Parkland shooting was a government conspiracy. Analysts say that along with race relations , gun control is a favorite target of disinformation campaigns seeking to spread confusion and anger. Bret Schafer , a research analyst with the Alliance for Securing Democracy , tells Wired that similar spikes in activity were seen after last year ' s mass shootings in Las Vegas and Texas. "" I don ' t think the Kremlin cares one way or another whether we enact stricter gun control laws , "" he says. "" It ' s just being used as bait , basically. "" He says most of the bots his group tracks target right-wing audiences , and he believes the #guncontrolnow hashtag was being used sarcastically. ( President Trump says he supports beefing up the background check system. )"
71,"Think pot growers are kind , environmentally-minded hippies ? Not in the so-called Emerald Triangle , a weed-farming region of California where illegal growers are spewing pollution , poisoning wildlife , and scaring scientists away from probing the environmental effects of pot-growing , Mother Jones reports. One wildlife ecologist received threats against his family , and researchers in the field have been shot at with high-caliber rifles. "" At my university , there is nobody who will even go near "" the issue , said a sociologist at Humboldt State University. Cops have conducted raids , but only bust the undocumented farm workers who work there. story continues below The Emerald Triangle , a tri-county area in the Central Valley , was once hippie heaven. But when California legalized pot for medicinal use in 1996 , out-of-work loggers went into pot farming and made millions. Prices dropped as domestic supply grew , so the farms expanded  as did the environmental impact of pesticides and generators , analysts say. Not only that , weed production sucked up massive amounts of water in a drought-plagued region and devastated local salmon populations. Solutions ? One environmentalist suggests fully legalizing pot so it can be regulated and grown where it ' s cheapest : "" It is not the growers who are a disease. They are just a symptom. The real disease is the failed drug war. "" Click for the full article , or see an East Bay Express report on how California has banned a rat poison used on "" trespass pot grows. "" ( Read more marijuana stories. )"
72,"Like earthquakes can unleash tsunamis , strong winds and the California wildfires apparently set loose another type of natural disaster : fire tornadoes. And the San Francisco Chronicle says the fire-filled tornadoes that hit Santa Rosa last week , driven by nearly 80mph winds , wreaked major havoc , tossing cars , pulling trees out of the ground , and ripping the roofs off of houses. "" I ' ve been in this business 30 years and it ' s the worst I ' ve seen , "" Scott Upton , a chief for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection , says of the tornadoes created during the Tubbs Fire. The Chronicle explains the science behind the tornado formation : As powerful winds drive the fire ' s flames into neighborhoods , the heat rises and draws those gusts up with it , creating the tornado , or "" fire whirl , "" a vortex of hot and cool air capable of mass destruction. story continues below This type of event , also referred to as a "" fire devil , "" can be so strong it ' s capable of lifting an entire home in the air ; the paper notes one such incident that took place in 1926. The location of the neighborhoods affected by the Tubbs Fire also exacerbated things : The wind sped up as it pushed the fire through a valley and toward residences , creating what Ken Pimlott , the head of CalFire , calls "" a very different kind of fire. "" It was "" almost horizontal , "" he says. "" When it hit those homes , it was like a blowtorch. "" The Press Democrat details the Tubbs Fire ' s 12-mile "" deadly march "" from its point of origin in Calistoga to Santa Rosa. Curious to know what one of these frightening flame-storms looks like without getting too close ? Mashable features a video , in which firefighters filmed a recent fire tornado raging through central Portugal. Newsweek has footage , too , out of California and Texas. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
73,"Wildfires continued to ravage Central Texas yesterday as firefighters battled the most devastating single fire in Texas history , the Los Angeles Times reports. As of yesterday , 476 homes had been destroyed in Bastrop County , east of Austin ; firefighters battled the flames as they tore through thousands of acres. With 40 square miles already charred , the fire remained a threat , though no one has been seriously injured , the American-Statesman notes. This one is as mean-looking as I ' ve ever seen ,  said Gov. Rick Perry. story continues below But we will pick up the pieces. We will rebuild ,  he said , adding that he  d call on the federal government for a major disaster declaration. Reduced winds are expected today , but forecasters still see extreme  growth potential for the Bastrop fire ; some 5,000 people have been evacuated. The blaze continues a disastrous year for Texas wildfires , with 3.5 million acres burned and six of the 10 biggest wildfires in Texas history occurring this year. There are so many big fires  23 and counting  there are simply not enough firefighters and aircraft to go around ,  says an NPR reporter. They "" move so fast , they kill. "" ( Read more Texas stories. )"
74,"Dry , windy conditions have made it tough for crews to contain the two largest wildfires in Colorado history. Officials are counting on help from above : a quick snowfall. "" We ' re going from critical fire danger ending at 7pm to a midnight winter storm watch , "" said a National Weather Service meteorologist. Snow has started falling on the Cameron Peak Fire in the north-central section of Colorado , which has taken 207,464 acres. It was 60 % contained as of Saturday , NBC reports. Near Estes Park , the East Troublesome Fire was only 4 % contained. It ' s burned 189,389 acres , pushed by 60mph wind gusts , and is threatening the landmark YMCA of the Rockies. "" We are still fighting an active fire , and there  s still a very dangerous situation here , "" a fire official said. New evacuation orders have been issued. story continues below The two fires are only 10 miles apart , but officials don ' t expect them to merge. Nor do they expect the change in the weather to end the threat from the fires. Warm and dry conditions are expected to return by the middle of the week. "" We know it ' s going to buy us a few days , "" said an official at the Cameron Peak Fire , "" and that ' s big. "" The increasing heat is drying up soil and water throughout the Colorado River Basin , per the Denver Post. Federal officials last week measured 97 % of the state in severe to exceptional drought. Climate change is behind the warmup , said a Colorado State University atmospheric scientist. "" We  ve got to get motivated and stop turning the thermostat up , "" Scott Denning said. "" That is urgent , not a sci-fi thing. It is us turning up the thermostat. It does not readily turn down. "" ( Fox apologizes for choice of background music. )"
75,"A crew member who escaped the Conception dive boat almost immediately suspected a galley charging station as the source of the blaze. Shirley Hansen , who assisted survivors of California ' s worst maritime disaster since the 1800s from her boat near Santa Cruz Island on Monday , says the crew member described the galley as having a charging station where divers could plug in phones , cameras , laptops , and other equipment , per the Los Angeles Times. A diver who ' s boarded Conception some 100 times says numerous AC power outlets are located in an area "" directly above "" the divers ' sleeping quarters. "" You can plug in overnight , "" he says. "" Sometimes with a lot of people on board , there ' d be competition for space. "" story continues below The boat ' s designer has another theory , however. Based on video footage , Roy Hauser believes the fire must ' ve started in the bunk area and spread so rapidly that none of the 34 people below deck had time to escape up a staircase leading to the galley or through an escape hatch leading to a mess area beside the galley. "" This had to have been , in my estimation , one of those lithium battery chargers , "" he says , noting there were electrical outlets in the bunk room. A dive instructor notes some boats no longer allow passengers to charge devices in bunk rooms due to the fire risk. The National Transportation Safety Board is expected to issue preliminary findings within 10 days , reports the Guardian , with a full report due within two years. ( Read more Conception dive boat stories. )"
76,"The Earth might have a more turbulent past  and hence a more turbulent future  than we thought. In a presentation yesterday , Dr. Susan Hough of the US Geological Survey argued that hidden throughout history are a glut of giant earthquakes that either went unrecorded or have been underestimated. "" Seismometers were developed around 1900. As soon as we had them , earthquakes started to look bigger , "" Hough said. To wit , LiveScience reports that records show that three temblors registered above magnitude-8.5 in the 19th century ; the 20th century claims a dozen. story continues below Her theory is that earlier earthquakes in the 8.0 to 8.5 magnitude range were actually bigger than that. "" If you try to make a statistical case , there are too few earthquakes in the 19th century , "" she says. She found evidence that many 19th-century quakes were likely bigger than we thought , the BBC reports. One 1843 quake , for example , was recorded as magnitude-8.3. "" It turns out it was felt by a quarter of the globe. "" This matters , because these historical quakes can help us predict future ones. The upshot being that the risk of future "" big one "" quakes is likely higher than we ' ve been assuming. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
77,""" It ' s extremely likely that human activities , especially emissions of greenhouse gases , are the dominant cause of "" climate change over the past century , according the fourth National Climate Assessment. "" There is no convincing alternative explanation. "" The report , which concludes climate change is real and almost entirely caused by humans , was released Friday by the Trump administration , the Washington Post reports. Surprised ? So were some scientists , who expected the administration to try to block the release of the report or change its scientific findings , as happened to an early assessment released under George W. Bush. Instead , the report ' s coordinating lead author says there was no meddling from lawmakers , and the White House Office of Science and Technology even signed off on it , according to USA Today. story continues below The findings of the 2,000-page report directly contradict statements made by President Trump , Energy secretary Rick Perry , and EPA head Scott Pruitt , who removed similar findings from the EPA website earlier this year. The report warns of a potential 8-foot rise in sea level by 2100 and increases in floods , large wildfires , extreme heat , and rainfall in the US. Coastal property damage could hit $ 120 billion annually by 2090 , the same year annual deaths from extreme temperatures could reach 9,300. And the report states it could be underselling things because of climate "" surprises "" when unexpected tipping points are reached. The peer-reviewed assessment  which was produced by hundreds of scientists and 1,500 reports and studies  states the only solution is to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases , especially carbon dioxide. ( Read more climate change stories. )"
78,"Two men drowned while trying to rescue a child struggling in powerful currents in Lake Michigan on Saturday. David Halford , 37 , and Kyle Reibly , 26 , were among a group of four that entered the water at Wells Street Beach in Gary , Ind. , after the child around 2 : 30pm. "" We were having a good time , and all of a sudden someone said there ' s a kid in the water , "" says Vernon Lesner , a friend of Halford. "" We had a mission. We were like , ' Hey this kid ' s coming back to shore , no matter what. "" Lesner tells NBC Chicago that he lost consciousness. After being saved by rescuers and coming to on shore , he learned Halford , a father of three , was gone. story continues below Fire officials say they arrived and found five people in danger. Halford and Reibly were pronounced dead , while a woman was taken to a hospital in stable condition , reports the Times of Northwest Indiana. The child and Lesner walked away from the scene. "" I think he ' s a hero , "" a friend says of Halford. "" He went out in a blaze of glory. "" It isn ' t clear if the group was at the beach for the Gary Air Show happening at the same time. Announcers repeatedly told visitors to avoid Lake Michigan as the National Weather Service had warned of "" life-threatening waves and currents , "" per the Post-Tribune. A 23-year-old man also drowned Saturday on Lake Michigan , raising the tally to 20 drownings this year , per CBS Chicago. ( Read more Indiana stories. )"
79,"The latest White House departure : White House counsel Donald McGahn will be leaving in the fall , President Trump confirmed on Twitter Wednesday morning. "" I have worked with Don for a long time and truly appreciate his service ! "" wrote Trump , who noted that McGahn ' s departure would come "" shortly after the confirmation ( hopefully ) of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. "" But as the New York Times notes , the relationship between Trump and McGahn has been "" rocky "" for a while. Trump , last year , reportedly asked McGahn to persuade attorney general Jeff Sessions not to recuse himself from the investigation into Russian interference with the 2016 presidential election and McGahn failed to do so ; Trump also last year reportedly asked McGahn to fire special counsel Robert Mueller and McGahn reportedly threatened to resign rather than do so. story continues below McGahn has since spoken to Mueller , voluntarily , for at least 30 hours , reportedly talking about Trump ' s directive to fire Mueller as well as Trump ' s firing of James Comey ; the Times calls the lawyer "" a key witness to whether the president tried to obstruct "" Mueller ' s Russia investigation. Axios had the first whiff of McGahn ' s departure , with a source saying the lawyer "" did the best he could under very trying circumstances , and often had to bat back unreasonable and legally problematic requests. "" Though some Trump allies think McGahn gave Mueller too much information , Axios notes McGahn also "" ran point "" when it came to getting conservative judges appointed to the federal bench ; if Kavanaugh is indeed confirmed , McGahn will leave on a "" high note. "" McGahn has reportedly said he wants Clinton administration alumnus Emmet Flood to succeed him. ( Read more Donald McGahn stories. )"
80,"A massive fire New Year ' s Eve in a multi-story parking garage in Liverpool , England , destroyed around 1,400 cars , with one exploding every few seconds at the height of the blaze , authorities say  but no humans or animals were seriously injured. Horses had been stabled in the garage before performances at the Liverpool International Horse Show , but they were moved to safety inside the nearby Echo Arena , the AP reports. Firefighters say six dogs that had been left in cars were rescued , including four from a vehicle on the roof of the seven-story structure and two that were saved from the second floor before the fire took hold , reports the Guardian. story continues below Police say an "" accidental fire within a vehicle caused other cars to ignite. "" The fire was brought under control Monday morning. The horse show was canceled and shelters were opened for people  and horses  needing emergency accommodation. Visitor Kerry Matthews tells the BBC that he left his car in the parking garage while visiting the city for New Year ' s Eve. "" A fireman said the whole car park is on fire. He said , ' What level is your car on? ' We said six , "" Matthews says. "" He said , ' Well , you best go and have a couple of drinks to celebrate [ the ] new year because you ' re not going to get your car back. ' "" ( Read more Liverpool stories. )"
81,"When a 6-mile-wide asteroid crashed into the Gulf of Mexico 66 million years ago , it caused a devastating wave of earthquakes , volcanoes , and tsunamis that killed untold number of animals and ended the reign of the dinosaurs. Then things got really bad. In a study published Monday in PNAS , scientists used a computer model to look at the climate effects of the asteroid ' s impact  namely plunging the Earth into darkness for up to two years. According to a press release , vaporized rock from the impact would have fallen back to Earth , igniting global wildfires and sending 15 billion tons of soot into the atmosphere , blocking out the sun. "" It would have been about as dark as a moonlit night , "" co-author Owen Toon says. It also would have effectively stopped photosynthesis for more than 18 months. story continues below Those months of darkness help explain how the asteroid impact killed off more than 75 % of Earth ' s species  including some that could have hidden from the immediate devastation underground or underwater , New Atlas reports. For one , the lack of photosynthesis would have killed off phytoplankton , the basis of the food chain in the ocean. For another , all that soot caused global temperatures over land to drop 50 degrees. According to Seeker , it took seven years for temperatures to return to normal. The soot also damaged the ozone layer , allowing in harmful ultraviolet light. Researchers say their computer model could be used to predict the effects of nuclear war , which would similarly send mass amounts of soot into the atmosphere. ( These weird creatures will live long enough to see the sun die. )"
82,"A wildfire burning in Colorado is now the biggest in the state ' s recorded history  breaking a record set less than three months ago. The Cameron Peak Fire , which started in mid-August , has now burned more than 203,000 acres of land in the north-central part of the state and was 62 % contained as of early Monday , the Denver Post reports. A newer blaze in the region , the CalWood fire , has burned more than 8,700 acres and has forced at least 3,000 people to flee their homes , reports USA Today. The fire , which started near the Cal-Wood Education Center 17 miles from Boulder Saturday , is already the biggest in Boulder County ' s history. It was 15 % contained as of early Monday. story continues below Authorities say the CalWood fire has destroyed dozens of homes. One of them belonged to Courtney Walsh , who says she was given 30 minutes ' notice to evacuate with her pets and two children on Saturday afternoon. "" It wasn  t real at that moment that we wouldn  t be returning , "" she tells the Colorado Sun. "" I was just frozen. "" She discovered Sunday that her home had burned to its foundation. "" We  re all safe and that ' s what matters , "" she says. The 1,500 firefighters battling the Cameron Peak Fire , meanwhile , were helped by lower winds and higher humidity over the weekend. ( Read more Colorado stories. )"
83,"Americans are already experiencing the harmful effects of climate change , and those effects will get worse unless something is done , according to a new National Climate Assessment issued today. The report cites increased instances of extreme weather , droughts , and heat waves as evidence of climate change ' s impact , and presents evidence that human activities are driving that impact , the LA Times reports. "" The overall message is that climate change is happening right now  we can ' t think of it as an issue for future generations , "" one lead author says. story continues below If nothing is done , the report predicts that the Northeast and Midwest will be hit with more downpours and flooding , while the Great Plains will see more droughts , and the Southwest more wildfire and extreme heatwaves. Compiled by more than 240 experts , the assessment is the third such report , and is mandated by Congress every four years. President Obama will mark the occasion by meeting with meteorologists to discuss the findings , CNN reports. ( Click for more on scientists ' quest to develop livestock that ' s resistant to climate change. )"
84,"It ' s the most well-known US fault , but the San Andreas Fault ' s southern section hasn ' t been behind a major earthquake since a 7.9-magnitude temblor in 1857  and that ' s got Thomas Jordan worried , the Los Angeles Times reports. "" The springs on the San Andreas system have been wound very , very tight , "" Jordan , the director of the Southern California Earthquake Center , told Wednesday ' s National Earthquake Conference. "" And the southern San Andreas fault , in particular , looks like it ' s locked , loaded , and ready to go. "" The area ( which includes Los Angeles on its periphery ) is due for a major quake , Jordan says , adding it ' s imperative Southern California continue to prepare , following the example of LA in pushing quake retrofits for buildings , as well as protecting telecommunications and water systems. "" An earthquake on the San Andreas would really affect all of Southern California , "" said Jordan ' s SCEC colleague , Mark Benthien , per CBS Los Angeles. story continues below In tectonics-speak , the San Andreas Fault  which Curbed Los Angeles calls a "" ticking ... time bomb ""  is where the Pacific Plate and the North American Plate meet , and the Pacific Plate is shifting northwest of the North American one at a rate of 16 feet or so every century , ScienceAlert notes. That ' s a lot of tension that needs to be released , which would be devastating : A 2008 USGS study found a 7.8-magnitude quake on the San Andreas Fault ' s southern portion could cause 1,800 fatalities , 50,000 injuries , and $ 200 billion in damage. Other parts of the fault have also remained dormant even longer , including in San Bernardino County ( no major shakeup since 1812 ) and near the Salton Sea , more or less steady since the late 1600s. "" We are fortunate that seismic activity in California has been relatively low over the past century , "" Jordan said last year. "" But we know that tectonic forces are continually tightening the springs  making big quakes inevitable. "" ( Meet the San Andreas ' "" equally dangerous "" partner. )"
85,"Earthquakes in the Golden State are common. Ones in the Sunshine State  not so much. But that ' s what South Florida residents thought they felt Friday , even though the US Geological Survey says it didn ' t register any such activity in the state , per CBS Miami. "" Did anyone else feel that?? ? "" one alarmed resident posted on Twitter around 1 : 45pm ET. "" My entire house shook for almost 10 seconds. "" The city of Weston , meanwhile , apparently started fielding calls from concerned locals about a possible blast of some sort. "" In regard to the rumbling that people in Weston felt just earlier. There was NO explosion in #Weston , "" the city ' s Twitter account noted , adding it didn ' t know what had happened. WSVN reports that the shaking and rattling was felt in at least three counties : Broward , Monroe , and Miami-Dade. story continues below "" At this point , the USGS does not know the source of the reported shaking , "" a rep for the agency says , noting that , because the rumblings were felt across such a wide area , its equipment would ' ve picked up any seismic activity if it were an earthquake. She notes that what happened sounds more like a sonic boom from an aircraft breaking the sound barrier. A local meteorologist concurs , telling the Sun Sentinel it was likely a military jet offshore ; he notes cloud cover in the area would ' ve helped carry any shock wave to land. The Homestead Air Reserve Base , however , says it wasn ' t holding training drills on Friday. CBS notes Florida has the least number of quakes in the nation , as it ' s not on top of any tectonic plate boundaries. A Miami resident noted the weirdness of a year that has only just begun. "" Welp , ' earthquake in Florida ' is marked off the 2021 checklist ! "" they posted. ( Read more Florida stories. )"
86,"Grass that ' s just sitting around , serving no purpose , will soon be prohibited in the Las Vegas Valley. Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak on Friday signed legislation banning "" non-functional turf "" starting in 2027 , the AP reports. Backyards and front lawns aren ' t going anywhere  single-family homes are exempt from the new law , as are golf courses and parks  but locals will be saying goodbye to the grass that sits between roads and sidewalks , or on medians and in traffic circles , the Las Vegas Review-Journal reports. Also on the way out : decorative grass outside certain buildings including housing developments and businesses. The move comes as Nevada endures a drought that has gone on for two decades with no end in sight. story continues below Lake Mead supplies around 90 % of southern Nevada ' s water , and it ' s at a record low  the first federally declared water shortage for the lake could arrive by August. "" It  s incumbent upon us for the next generation to be more conscious of conservation and our natural resources  water being particularly important , "" Sisolak said last week. The bill , which passed with bipartisan support , will eliminate about 6 square miles of grass , or 31 % of the grass in the Las Vegas area , and is expected to conserve about 11 gallons of water per person per day in the region , which has a population of 2.3 million. While other areas of the US have temporarily banned lawns , Nevada becomes the first state to enact a permanent ban. ( Read more Nevada stories. )"
87,"The body of a Michigan woman has been found near her family ' s cabin , nine weeks after she called a friend and asked her to call the police. Relatives say that after many searches , the body of a woman believed to be 47-year-old Adrienne "" Ada "" Quintal was found near a flooded dam around 350 yards away from the cabin in Honor , 255 miles northwest of Detroit , the Detroit News reports. Quintal called the friend at 2 : 34am on Oct 17 , saying she had been in a shootout with two men. She said she had shot one of them in the face and the other was shooting at her. The friend called police but the address Quintal had given her was incorrect. Officers found the cabin at 3 : 15am but Quintal was not inside. Her phone , purse , and handgun were found at the scene and her vehicle was nearby. story continues below Police say no blood or other signs that a person had been injured were found at the scene , MLive reports. Investigators found that there were multiple bullet holes in one of the cabin ' s windows , but all the shots had been fired from inside. Police and relatives believe Quintal , who suffered a head injury months earlier , may have had some kind of medical issue , reports the Detroit Free Press. Benzie County Undersheriff Kyle Rosa tells the Traverse City Record-Eagle that the body was found in a flooded area near where searchers had looked before. "" We ' re hopeful that it  s Quintal so that we can close out our case and we can bring closure to the family , finally , "" he says. ( Read more Michigan stories. )"
88,"Cindy Karlsen was right to be worried when her husband , following the 2008 death of his son , received $ 700,000 in insurance money and invested some of it in a $ 1.2 million life insurance policy for her. She donned a wire and in 2011 recorded Karl Karlsen admitting to intentionally causing a vehicle to fall on his son hours after the 23-year-old signed paperwork naming his father as the sole beneficiary of his life insurance policy , per the New York Times. It turns out that wasn ' t the first time the New York man had engineered such a scheme. Sentenced to 15 years to life after pleading guilty to second-degree murder in 2013 , Karlsen was found guilty Monday of murdering his first wife for insurance money in California in 1991. Prosecutors said Christina Karlsen , 30 , was trapped in a bathroom of the couple ' s Murphys home when her husband set a fire in the hallway. story continues below Following a finding of accidental death , Karlsen collected $ 200,000 from a life insurance policy he took out 19 days before Christina ' s death and moved with his three children to Seneca County , NY , where Levi Karlsen would later die , per Syracuse.com and the Sonora Union Democrat. In the aftermath , authorities in California revisited Christina ' s death , for which her mother blamed Karlsen. "" I just knew that he had something to do with it , "" the 78-year-old tells the Times. Christina was trapped by a boarded-up window , reports Fox News , while the rest of her family escaped the blaze that was fueled by what prosecutors described as carpet covered in kerosene. Karlsen , 59 , who faces life without the chance of parole at his sentencing on March 17 , plans to appeal the jury verdict , though his and Christina ' s daughter is more accepting of it. "" I ' m just happy , "" she tells the Union Democrat. ( Read more murder stories. )"
89,"A single family has controlled large swaths of Bay Area land since the Gold Rush , but that era ended this week , the San Francisco Chronicle reports : The Pattersons have donated the last of their land  almost 300 acres  to the East Bay Regional Park District. The $ 10 million donation is the most valuable the district has ever received , the newspaper notes ; developers put the value at closer to $ 500 million. Wilcox Patterson calls Tuesday ' s donation "" bittersweet. I used to tramp around here as a boy , hunting pheasants and ducks. But we inherited this land , and with inheritance comes an obligation to give back. ... I ' m thrilled to see this land go to public use , for public enjoyment. "" story continues below Indiana farmer George Patterson headed to California ' s goldfields in 1849  but it was his farming operation that really took off , the Park District notes. At one point , the Pattersons owned some 8,700 acres of land in the area. After 14 years of argument between locals , developers , the government , and the family , some 296 acres of the new donation will remain as open land. Another 100-acre tract will be developed. "" This is an amazing example of benevolence , "" says an official. "" It was a tortuous route to get here , but nothing great ever comes easily , "" adds the district ' s general manager. ( Meanwhile , drought is fueling a modern day Gold Rush. )"
90,"More than 1,600 firefighters fought an uncontrollable wildfire Sunday in California ' s Santa Clarita Valley , an inferno that fire officials say grew three times larger over the weekend due to hot , arid conditions and winds up to 20mph , NBC News and the Los Angeles Times report. More than 33,000 acres have now become enveloped in flames in what ' s become known as the Sand fire , said to be only 10 % contained by Monday morning. About 1,500 mandatory evacuations remain in place after winds gave the fire new life Sunday , even though initially some residents were to return to their homes then. "" All the experience we ' ve had with fires is out the window , "" Los Angeles County Deputy Fire Chief John Tripp tells the AP. At least 18 homes were destroyed over the weekend , and a body was found in a burned-out car on Saturday , though officials haven ' t mentioned the cause of death. Smoke could be spotted from as far away as Las Vegas , around 270 miles away. story continues below Flames were said to leap up to 50 feet high , with authorities noting the blaze raced forward "" like a freight train , "" per the AP. In addition to the fire-friendly weather , California ' s drought conditions and about 60 years without a big blaze left the area vulnerable to a wildfire , Los Angeles County Supervisor Michael Antonovich said Saturday. "" Five years ago , if we had a similar fire , we would have probably caught [ it ] at the ridge , "" Los Angeles County Fire Department Chief Daryl Osby told reporters , adding via the AP : "" For this time of year , it ' s the most extreme fire behavior I ' ve seen in my 32-year career. "" And three other fires so far this season in Los Angeles County have fire officials concerned. "" We are in July , "" Tripp tells the Times. "" We ' ve never had four major fires within six weeks in June and July. "" One local who was evacuated lamented to the Monterey Herald , "" I hope I don ' t have to rebuild my house. I ' m 66. "" ( The Pacific Standard says the fire is an omen of "" things to come. "" )"
91,"Who hasn ' t been annoyed when Sherlock Holmes deftly solves a crime with a "" what the ... ? "" answer and calls it "" elementary , my dear Watson "" ? Criminology teacher Noah Charney is apparently among us , writing in the Daily Beast that Holmes ' thinking just wouldn ' t work in real-life cases. Case in point : Holmes ' famous conclusion in the Arthur Conan Doyle story The Silver Blaze that a dog failed to bark one night because a "" midnight visitor was someone whom the dog knew well. "" Something not happening implicates the crook  cool , right ? Not so , says Charney. story continues below In fact , Holmes ' "" abduction reasoning ""  an inference based on known facts  is really an assumption. Maybe a stranger fed or drugged the dog , or the dog was just irrational. Today , with large databases and mathematical modeling , inductive reasoning is considered far more reliable. Charney makes his point by asking you to guess the next number in this sequence : 2,8,16 , x. You guessed 32 , right ? Wrong , he says : The sequence was actually based on a mathematical dilemma called Moser ' s Circle Problem , in which the next number is 31. Point being : "" Look at the problem from one angle only , and you risk getting it wrong. "" Perhaps more importantly , BBC ' s new Sherlock series has made Holmes "" sexy again , "" reports Rolling Stone. "" The most attractive person in the room is not always the best-looking ; it ' s the most interesting , "" says one of the show ' s co-creators. ( Read more Sherlock Holmes stories. )"
92,"It was a terrifying night for many people in Chile , where around a million people along the country ' s 2,690-mile coast fled their homes after an 8.3-magnitude earthquake. Waves reached 15 feet in some areas and many homes were badly damaged , though few injuries and only five deaths were reported , the New York Times reports. The quake caused tsunami warnings as far away as New Zealand , Russia , Hawaii , and California , the Guardian reports. The US warnings have been downgraded to advisories , though officials have warned people not to swim , surf , or even get too close to the water this morning. This National Tsunami Warning Center map shows the tsunami forecast across the Pacific. story continues below Away from the coast in Chile , many people spent the night sleeping in the streets , fearing major aftershocks , reports the BBC , which notes that the earthquake struck as many Chileans were heading to the coast for a week of Independence Day celebrations. "" Once again we have to confront a tough blow from nature , "" President Michelle Bachelet said in a TV address after the quake struck , per the Times , which notes that the rapid coastal evacuation was part of protocols put in place after an 8.8-magnitude quake in 2010 killed more than 500 Chileans. ( Read more Chile earthquake stories. )"
93,"The American Red Cross raised nearly $ 500 million after Haiti ' s devastating 2010 earthquake , but what happened to the money ? According to an NPR and Pro Publica report , the organization claims to have provided 130,000 people with homes but in fact built only six permanent homes. The Red Cross says land-rights issues hindered its efforts , but reporters found other problems , like lengthy bureaucratic delays , changes in staffing , and a full year in which nothing happened. "" They never had a real plan for what they wanted to do in housing , "" says Lee Malany , who was in charge of the organization ' s Haiti shelter program. He says Red Cross leadership , including CEO Gail McGovern , seemed more concerned with publicity than project details. story continues below NPR and Pro Publica look at the struggling Haitian community of Campeche , part of a Port-au-Prince neighborhood where the Red Cross promised to spent $ 24 million on rebuilding  but residents say it never happened. The Red Cross reacted with an email that accused reporters of "" creating ill will in the community , which may give rise to a security incident. We will hold you and your news organizations fully responsible. "" The Red Cross also says it provided Haitians with temporary housing , rental assistance , clean water , vaccinations , sanitation , and other services ( but won ' t give details on projects or expenses ) . A press conference about the report got heated in Haiti this week , Pro Publica reports , and NPR says there may be a Congressional hearing. Click to see the Red Cross ' full response. ( Read more American Red Cross stories. )"
94,"As the rescue mission continues in Japan , the first truly scary numbers are emerging. Government officials in the northern town of Minamisanriku say 9,500 are missing , according to the official Kyodo news agency. That represents about half the town ' s population , notes the CBC. Still , confusion is rampant , and the confirmed death toll after the 8.9 quake remains about 600 across the nation. More than 200,000 have sought refuge in emergency shelters. Click for information on ways to offer donations. ( Read more Japan earthquake stories. )"
95,"Lily Mae Avant , a 10-year-old Texas girl who contracted Naegleria fowleri , has died. She has been fighting the brain-eating amoeba in a Fort Worth children ' s hospital since swimming over Labor Day weekend in the Brazos River and Lake Whitney near Waco. Lily ' s school announced the fifth grader ' s death in a Facebook post on Monday , CNN reports. "" She was an outstanding student , but more importantly , Lily was an incredible person and friend to all , "" the post said. Her family , which received expressions of support from around the world , expressed gratitude in a statement. "" We have been flooded by your love and support and feel incredibly humbled by how many lives have been impacted by our sweet and sassy , Lily Mae , "" the statement said , per KWTX. ( Read more brain eating amoeba stories. )"
96,"Authorities have warned of no end in sight to volcanic activity responsible for hundreds of earthquakes and the destruction of dozens of homes on Hawaii ' s Big Island. Case in point : After a 24-hour lull , two new volcano fissures opened up in the Lanipuna Gardens area Tuesday afternoon  at least one home was destroyed  prompting a warning for the area ' s 250 residents to "" evacuate now , "" report Hawaii News Now and Reuters. The fissures join 12 other vents , covering 2.5 miles , in the Leilani Estates neighborhood , where 1,700 were evacuated. Though activity has calmed there , Kilauea ' s ongoing eruption "" could last days , weeks , years , "" a volcanologist tells NPR. "" As long as there ' s magma supplying the system we ' re expecting more of the same , "" adds USGS volcanologist Wendy Stovall. story continues below At CNN , geologist Einat Lev explains that Kilauea ' s "" effusive fissure eruption "" is resulting in lava flows that are slow-moving but threatening nonetheless. "" While we cannot tell how long this eruption will last , we can do our best to predict where the lava will go , "" Lev says. Using constantly updated maps and heat cameras , experts are tracking magma as it flows beneath communities , trying to determine where pressure will force a new fissure to open and how much lava and ash might escape. Other concerns include sulfur dioxide gas , which could turn to acid rain with precipitation expected Thursday or Friday , reports KTLA , and the possibility of explosive eruptions that send boulders flying through the air , which geologists warned about Wednesday , per the AP. Scientists are trying to look on the bright side , though. "" The things that we will learn in the wake of this eruption will change the way we see volcanoes for the future , "" Stovall says. ( Read more Hawaii stories. )"
97,"The deal isn ' t official yet , but the New York Times and Los Angeles Times say Al Sharpton is all but certain to get his own show at 6pm EST on MSNBC. It doesn ' t come without a dose of drama , though. Sharpton won the job over the outspoken Cenk Uygur , who left the network and accused its top brass of caving to the pressure of "" people in Washington "" who wanted him to tone down his criticism. ( Uygur gives his version on his online Young Turks show , and the lengthy video is at left. ) story continues below Not so , says MSNBC ' s Phil Griffin : We never told Cenk what to say or what not to say. "" It wasn ' t politicians who complained but the network ' s own producers , who said it was getting hard to book guests because of Uygur ' s combative style. The right-wing Blaze loved the whole story , asking , "" Is the White House programming a news channel ? "" The White House promptly denied the charge as ridiculous to Mediaite. For more on the Uygur controversy , see Salon or the Huffington Post. ( Read more Al Sharpton stories. )"
98,"The battle between conservative personality Tomi Lahren and probably soon-to-be ex-boss Glenn Beck continues nearly a month after she was suspended from Beck ' s network , the Blaze. Despite Lahren ' s wrongful-termination suit against the two parties , Beck insists she wasn ' t fired and is still under contract , and he and the network have now filed a countersuit against her , TMZ reports. Beck ' s complaint says her show was taken off the air after she made "" shocking and disappointing "" pro-choice comments on The View in mid-March , though it says she ' ll continue to be paid under a "" pay or play "" provision , per the Washington Post. The countersuit also says Lahren , whom it accuses of breaching her contract , was rabble-rousing at work for some time , where she "" embarrassed the company "" with remarks that "" were uninformed and inconsistent , "" the Dallas Morning News reports. story continues below Among Lahren ' s alleged infractions listed in the countersuit , per the Post : She was "" divisive "" and rubbed colleagues the wrong way , was "" unprofessional "" toward the crew , and openly complained about the company. A Dallas County judge offered Lahren some good news Monday , ruling she ' s still allowed to post on her Facebook page , though a condition of that is that she can ' t trash Beck or the Blaze ; they also can ' t badmouth her. Their lawyer maintains Lahren was never barred from posting on Facebook. A new filing by Lahren ' s lawyer Monday asks for her to be released from her contract , which expires Sept. 30 , and to allow her to reveal "" misconduct "" by Beck and the Blaze. Those parties , meanwhile , want to keep her from public appearances or commenting without their OK , per the countersuit. There will be a hearing in two weeks. ( Lahren was once "" the rising star of the right. "" )"
99,"Paula Deen has made a couple of public apologies and/or explanations ( not all of them grammatically correct ) for her still-exploding n-word controversy. But she needn ' t feel alone ; she joins a whole slew of other celebrities who had to do the same. Wonderwall rounds up 19 others : ( AP Photo/Nick Ut , File )"
100,"The FTC took a step this week in cracking down on the widespread  and annoying  problem of illegally spamming robocalls. The agency stopped and fined four prolific robospamming operations , which had been using automatic dialers to flood customers with billions of predatory calls , reports Gizmodo. The FTC announced that Higher Goals Marketing , Veterans of America , Pointbreak Media , and NetDotSolutions agreed to settle up over alleged robocall schemes. One ( NetDot ) had been responsible for over a billion calls a year , according to the FTC. Veterans of America had allegedly been scamming people into donating to the fake charity , even securing boats and cars that were then sold. story continues below "" It  s a noteworthy step , but it  s only one small piece of solving the robocall problem , "" writes Adi Robertson of the Verge. The court order imposed millions of dollars of fines on the four companies , which had been aggressively pitching everything from auto warranties to home security systems. Pointbreak ' s robocalls suggested the company represented Google , and the calls warned businesses that their search results might suffer unless they paid a sum. ( John Oliver was doing some robocalls of his own. )"
101,"France will rebuild Notre Dame "" even more beautifully , "" President Emmanuel Macron told the nation Tuesday in a televised address. "" And I want it to be completed in five years. "" One day after fire ravaged the cathedral , Reuters reports that Macron laid out the challenge ahead : "" It is up to us to convert this disaster into an opportunity to come together , having deeply reflected on what we have been and what we have to be and become better than we are , "" he said. "" It is up to us to find the thread of our national project. "" Macron had visited the site Monday night. "" The fire at Notre Dame reminds us that our history never stops , "" he said in the speech , per Euronews. Pope Francis made a similar point : "" Notre Dame will always remain  and we have seen this in these hours  a place where believers and non-believers can come together in the most dramatic moments of French history. "" story continues below More than $ 700 million has now been pledged for the rebuilding , per CNN , led by wealthy donors and companies. The work begins with a damage assessment , which is now being conducted by national , local , and church authorities , NPR reports. The investigation of the cause of the fire also has begun , but officials caution that it will be long and complex. Dozens of investigators will , among other things , interview workers involved in the restoration project that was underway when the fire broke out. The investigation is limited until experts are sure the building remains structurally sound , making it safe to enter the nave. Some visitors remained hopeful when visiting the damaged cathedral : "" Yesterday we thought the whole cathedral would collapse , "" said a nun who rushed to another church to pray while the landmark burned. "" Yet this morning she is still standing , valiant , despite everything. "" ( Read more Notre Dame Cathedral stories. )"
102,"The wreckage of one of the most storied vessels in American history has been found in Canadian waters northeast of Boston , almost 60 years after it sank while being towed to Philadelphia. The US Revenue Cutter Bear , built as a sealing ship in Scotland in 1874 , was bought by the US in 1884 and took part in the Arctic search for the Greely expedition. In the following decades , Bear , as part of the Revenue Cutter Service , a forerunner to the Coast Guard , served in Alaskan waters. Its many duties included Arctic rescues , law enforcement , carrying supplies to remote areas , and serving as a floating courthouse. It brought relief to San Francisco after the 1906 earthquake , and patrolled Arctic waters for the Navy in World War I. story continues below "" During Bear ' s 40-year career in Alaska , the cutter performed some of the most daring and successful Arctic rescues in history , "" says William Thiesen , the Coast Guard Atlantic Area  s official historian , per the AP. "" And when malnourished Native Americans needed food , Bear brought it. When stranded whalers needed rescue , Bear saved them. One hundred years ago when thousands of Alaskans contracted the Spanish flu during the pandemic , Bear brought doctors and medicine. "" In 1926 , it became a museum ship in Oakland and appeared in the 1930 movie The Sea-Wolf. In 1934 , it returned to icy waters for an Antarctic mission and in World War II , it returned to Navy service and helped capture a German spy ship. The Bear ' s captain from 1886 until 1895 , Michael "" Hell Roaring Mike "" Healy , was "" the first person of African American descent to command a ship of the US Government , "" the NOAA said in a blog post confirming that the wreck had been found. Bear sank while it was being towed from Nova Scotia in 1963 to become a floating restaurant in Philadelphia. The NOAA says the ship ' s bow is largely intact , but the hull has experienced "" the ravages of time ""  and fishing gear. Assorted groups have been searching for Bear since the late 1970s , LiveScience reports. Brad Barr , mission coordinator for the NOAA ' s Maritime Heritage Program , says a search with the Coast Guard and other partners identified its possible resting place in 2019 , and the find was confirmed with a remotely operated vehicle in September. He says the wreck ' s exact location is being kept secret and talks with the Canadian government on protecting the site are underway. ( Read more shipwreck stories. )"
103,"Authorities believe a California ballot box was set on fire in Los Angeles Sunday night. The ballots inside were , obviously , damaged ; the Guardian reports firefighters had to spray water into the box to extinguish the blaze , then cut the box open with a chainsaw to get the ballots out. The incident is under investigation as arson , with the FBI joining local leaders in the probe. CBS LA reports more than 200 ballots were impacted , and all voters affected will be mailed a new ballot. story continues below "" The arson of an official ballot drop box ... has all the signs of an attempt to disenfranchise voters and call into question the security of our elections ,  one county supervisor says in a statement. Adds another , "" It  s my understanding that it was malicious , it wasn  t just a kid maybe throwing a match in a box. It was some serious vandalism ... they were determined to really destroy ballots. "" ( Read more Election 2020 stories. )"
104,"California ' s governor declared a statewide emergency with nearly 200,000 people ordered to flee their homes because of wildfires fueled by historic winds , while millions were without electricity after the largest utility cut power in some areas as a precaution to prevent other fires , the AP reports. Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a statement that officials are deploying "" every resource available "" to respond to the wildfires , including a large blaze in Northern California ' s wine country driven by powerful winds. Smoke from a second wildfire in the San Francisco Bay Area briefly halted traffic on a bridge. The flames came dangerously close to homes in Vallejo. In the south , a wildfire in the Santa Clarita area near Los Angeles has destroyed 18 structures , threatened homes and critical infrastructure. story continues below The current wildfire , dubbed the Kincade Fire , began Wednesday night and is only 10 % contained , the state Department of Forestry and Fire Protection said Sunday. It grew by almost 4,000 acres overnight to 30,000 acres and has destroyed 79 structures. The fire was expected to be especially unwieldy Sunday due to powerful winds. On Sunday morning , the National Weather Service reported wind gusts topped 90 mph in Healdsburg Hills North , a popular tourist attraction in Northern California ' s wine country. Winds could lead to "" erratic fire behavior "" and send embers for miles , Cal Fire warned. Wine country properties were burning , per the Los Angeles Times. "" The next 72 hours is going to be challenging , "" Gov. Gavin Newsom said. ( Newsom ripped PG&E and promised changes. )"
105,"You can add one more name to the list of those claiming the Shroud of Turin dates only to medieval times. According to British historian Charles Freeman , Jesus ' supposed burial cloth  believed by many to show his image after crucifixion  is a 14th-century prop that was likely used during an Easter-morning re-enactment of the resurrection. Freeman says his analysis of historical texts and illustrations has found no mention of the cloth before its first documented appearance in France in 1355 , the Guardian reports. "" Astonishingly , few researchers appear to have grasped that the shroud looked very different in the 16th and 17th centuries from the object we see today , "" Freeman writes in History Today. There , he examines "" early depictions and descriptions of the Shroud that illustrate features now lost. "" story continues below Among them , Antonio Tempesta ' s 1613 engraving of the cloth and writings on it : a description by a Benedictine monk in 1449 , another by Pope Sixtus in 1474 , and an entry in the Travel Journal of Antonio de Beatis , which records a 1517 viewing. They depict or reference a shroud in which blood and scourge marks are prominent. In Freeman ' s view , this syncs with a "" change in iconography "" : The depictions of Christ ' s burial from the 1100s and 1200s are largely free of blood ; the emphasis on a bloodied Christ came into play in the 14th century. In Freeman ' s view , the Shroud of Turin was not a forgery intended to deceive but a prop used during the Easter "" Quem quaeritis ? ( "" Whom do you seek ? "" ) ceremony , and he points to the 1988 radiocarbon-dating of the shroud that dated it to the 14th century as further proof. ( A February study , however , asserted the image on the shroud was created by an earthquake in AD33. )"
106,"For Serena Williams , the chase has been long. She ' s been one Grand Slam win behind Margaret Court ' s all-time record for 44 months , ever since winning the 2017 Australian Open while pregnant. In four Slam finals since  two at Wimbledon , two in New York  she ' s finished runner-up. But now , the 38-year-old , arguably the greatest tennis player of all time , is looking to end the longest major title drought of her career with her 24th Grand Slam win at the US Open in New York , per USA Today. And the coronavirus pandemic might help her out. Six of the top 10 players in the WTA rankings  including top seeds Ashleigh Barty and Simona Halep , and defending champion Bianca Andreescu  have opted to sit out. That said , Williams , ranked third , is not expecting a cakewalk. story continues below "" There ' s no easy match. Everyone ' s playing great , "" she says , per the US Open website. Just last week , she blew a lead to lose to Greece ' s Maria Sakkari , the 22nd seed. Before that , she lost to American Shelby Rogers , who is ranked 93. But with just 15 matches under her belt in 2020  five since the tour resumed  Williams will be "" much fitter and fresher than she usually is at this point in the year , "" per USA Today. She ' ll need to win seven matches , including her first against American Kristie Ahn , ranked 96th , which begins at 2pm Eastern on Tuesday. Victory in the tournament would mean more than a Grand Slam record. Williams would also take the crown for most US Open women ' s titles at seven , per AFP , and become the oldest player to win a Slam. She turns 39 next month. ( Read more Serena Williams stories. )"
107,"The New York Mets fired their new general manager on Tuesday after he acknowledged sending explicit images via text to a female reporter in 2016 , reports the New York Post. Jared Porter , who was hired during the offseason , got the boot after the story surfaced at ESPN on Monday night. We have terminated Jared Porter this morning ,  tweeted team owner Steve Cohen. In my initial press conference I spoke about the importance of integrity and I meant it. There should be zero tolerance for this type of behavior.  Porter admitted to ESPN that he sent the images , including one of an erect penis , to the unnamed reporter. He first denied sending any photos of himself before backtracking when informed that selfies were in the mix. story continues below "" The more explicit ones are not of me , "" he told the outlet. "" Those are like , kinda like joke-stock images. "" The woman , described by ESPN as a foreign correspondent who moved to the US to cover baseball , said at one point that Porter her sent her more than 60 consecutive texts , seven of which were photos , even though she was not responding to him. The 41-year-old was working for the Chicago Cubs at the time as head of its scouting department. The Mets hired him in December. The woman told ESPN that she spoke to Porter only once , when they met in an elevator in Yankee Stadium in 2016 and exchanged business cards. He began flooding her with texts the next day , she says. ( Read more New York Mets stories. )"
108,"There ' s no fracking or tectonic plate boundaries in Connecticut , so experts haven ' t got a ready explanation for a swarm of earthquakes that has hit the eastern part of the state over the last week. There have been 12 quakes since last Thursday , the strongest of them a 3.3-magnitude quake that came amid five smaller quakes on Monday. State officials plan to hold a briefing to discuss preparedness in case the quakes continue , NBC Connecticut reports. The quakes are centered around the town of Plainfield , where police have fielded hundreds of calls from worried residents ; some homes have sustained damage to drywall or had pictures knocked off walls , reports the Providence Journal. story continues below Experts say quakes are unusual but not completely unheard of in the region , and the quake swarm could be linked to pressure in a 400-million-year-old fault line near Plainfield. "" The hypothesis is that you ' re getting the release of stress when these ancient faults are breaking , "" a Yale geology professor tells CBS. "" If you look at a geological map of eastern Connecticut , there are a lot of faults and there may well be faults we don ' t know about because they don ' t extend to the surface. "" She says it ' s impossible to tell whether the quakes could end tomorrow or continue for months. ( Could the East Coast be due for a Big One ? )"
109,"The news of Dustin Diamond ' s stage 4 cancer is making the rounds , and some former colleagues are now offering up their good wishes. On Thursday , People magazine put up an Instagram post with news of Diamond ' s diagnosis , and fans flooded the comments with good thoughts for the 44-year-old actor , who played Samuel "" Screech "" Powers on the early ' 90s sitcom Saved by the Bell. Among those with kind words for Diamond : Mario Lopez , who co-starred with Diamond on the show as AC Slater. "" God Bless &amp; Prayers Up ! "" Lopez wrote , per People. He also later put up his own post , showing a photo of himself and Diamond back in the day on Saved by the Bell , alongside a more recent photo of them. story continues below "" I connected with Dustin earlier this evening and although the news of his diagnosis is heartbreaking , we remain positive that he ' ll overcome this , "" Lopez wrote. "" Praying for him &amp; his family and for a speedy recovery. "" Page Six , meanwhile , notes that Tiffani Thiessen ( aka Kelly Kapowski ) had her own message for Diamond. "" Thinking of you Dustin , "" she noted in an Instagram story. No word yet from Elizabeth Berkley ( Jessie Spano ) and Mark-Paul Gosselaar ( Zach Morris ) . Diamond isn ' t in the Saved by the Bell reboot that all of his co-stars have joined  there had been rumors of a longtime rift among him and some of his ex-colleagues  but his team had previously told Entertainment Weekly he was in talks to possibly do so and they had their "" fingers crossed "" it would happen. ( Read more Dustin Diamond stories. )"
110,"This year , seven for-hire drivers have committed suicide in New York City. The most recent , Fausto Luna , was an Uber driver who jumped in front of a train at a Manhattan subway station Sept. 26 , ABC 7 reports. The other six were yellow cab taxi drivers or drivers for livery or black car services. At a Sunday afternoon vigil for Luna outside the Washington Heights subway station where the 58-year-old died , about two dozen people attended , carrying signs with the names of the dead and criticizing how professional drivers are treated , the New York Times reports. The suicides highlight the troubles faced by drivers for more traditional services as they struggle to compete with the ride-hailing apps flooding the streets with alternate options , but even drivers for Uber and similar companies say they ' re struggling with low pay and too much competition. story continues below Advocates say that for-hire drivers are facing increasing debt even as they work longer shifts. "" We are right now in a very deep crisis , "" said one taxi driver of more than 26 years who attended the vigil. The executive director of the Black Car Fund , which runs a workers ' compensation fund for car-service drivers , says it is partnering with the Independent Drivers Guild "" to deliver mental wellness counseling , emergency response , psychologists , social workers and other helpful services directly to drivers. "" New York in August became the first major US city to put a temporary cap on new vehicle licenses for ride-hailing services , but there are more than 100,000 for-hire vehicles already in use on the city ' s streets , compared to 63,000 in 2015. The city ' s taxi commissioner attended the vigil and said she wants to make sure drivers "" know how to reach out for help , "" but she was ultimately shouted at and chased away from the vigil , Patch reports. ( Read more taxi driver stories. )"
111,"Tropical Storm Hermine is surging toward Florida and is expected to make landfall as a hurricane by early Friday , reports USA Today. That means an 11-year streak could be broken : Florida has been hurricane-free since Hurricane Wilma claimed five lives in 2005 , though it has seen 10 tropical storms since then , per USA Today. Up to 20 inches of rain is expected in some parts of the state with an additional risk of tornadoes. A meteorologist predicts "" a very lousy holiday weekend "" on the East Coast as a whole as the storm will eventually move northeast , per NBC News. ( Read more Florida stories. )"
112,"Police arrested Victor Serriteno in September and charged him with murder after the body of 32-year-old Priscilla Castro was found at a dam in California ' s Solano County. Now officials are accusing him of killing two more by setting a deadly wildfire to cover up Castro ' s death. NBC News reports that Serriteno is blamed for setting the Markley Fire , which began on Aug. 18 , 2020 , killing 82-year-old Douglas Mai and 64-year-old Leon "" James "" Bone in their homes , Solano County Sheriff Tom Ferrara said at a Wednesday presser. In September , Castro ' s burned body was discovered and Serriteno was arrested , with investigators saying they believed he ' d gone to meet up with Castro for a date on Aug. 16. story continues below Castro wasn ' t seen again after that. Now , "" based on an extensive eight-month investigation , we believe Serriteno deliberately set the Markley Fire in an attempt to conceal his crime , "" Ferrera said at the news conference. The Markley Fire eventually merged with the Hennessey Fire , which was part of the LNU Lightning Complex blazes that burned more than 363,000 acres and killed six. Insider notes that Serriteno has been in police custody since his September arrest. KCRA reports he ' ll be arraigned Friday , with prosecutors expected to add arson charges , as well as charges for two more homicides. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
113,"A San Diego businessman is donating $ 1 million in the wake of Northern California ' s devastating Camp Fire  but he ' s doing so in an unconventional way. Bob Wilson , 89 , plans to pass out $ 1,000 checks on Tuesday to each of the 980 students and 105 staff members from Paradise High School. Much of the town of Paradise was destroyed in the blaze , the high school was closed , and evacuated students scattered , their lives "" upended. "" Wilson was heartbroken when thinking back on his own "" idyllic "" high school days and realizing Paradise High students are missing out on making those same memories , he tells NBC Los Angeles. story continues below Wilson plans to travel more than 500 miles to the other end of his state to personally deliver the checks , the Los Angeles Times reports. There will be an assembly somewhere in Chico , though it ' s not yet clear exactly where they ' ll gather , the Paradise Post reports. "" I thought about , ' OK , do you go to the Red Cross ? How do you do this? ' "" Wilson says , per the Times. "" Then I thought , ' No , it  s too slow , too bureaucratic. What I want to do is I want to give every one of those kids $ 1,000. ' "" He says he doesn ' t care what they do with the money , he just wants to "" lift their spirits. "" ( In California last week , an example of "" what Thanksgiving ' s about. "" )"
114,"It is , in the jargon of the NOAA , an "" unusual mortality event "" ( UME ) . The government-ese refers to the deaths of more than 260 bottlenose dolphins since February in states bordering the Gulf of Mexico. While stranding deaths occur every year , the numbers this year are three times higher than normal , reports AccuWeather. The dolphins are washing up in Louisiana , Mississippi , Alabama , and the panhandle of Florida , and researchers say it ' s too early to say what ' s going on. The UME designation , however , means that an investigative team is now on the case. In the meantime , two theories have emerged  that the dolphins are suffering from too much freshwater and lingering effects from the 2010 Deepwater Horizon spill. story continues below Dolphins need salt water to survive , and they may not be getting enough along the coast in bays , sounds , and other waterways , explains the New Orleans Times-Picayune. One big reason is the year ' s heavy flooding  and the related opening of spillways and such  which has led to the Mississippi River running unusually high. The river feeds the waterways where the dolphins live , and some of the washed-up dolphins do indeed have lesions consistent with too much freshwater. Scientists also will investigate whether the 2010 spill could be a contributing factor. Dolphins that survived suffered lung and adrenal gland problems that might have made them more susceptible to water with low salinity , per USA Today. ( In Canada , better news for dolphins and whales in the "" Free Willy "" act. )"
115,"On the heels of one awful revelation , another , and another : It turns out the Bangladesh factory that has now entered the history books as the site of the country ' s deadliest garment fire lost its fire safety certification five months before the blaze occurred. A fire official told the AP that after the certification expired on June 30 , an updated one was not granted because the building lacked the proper safety features ; he provided no further details on the violations ( though the lack of fire exits probably tops the list ) . story continues below The official did explain the typical process after certification is lost : The factory owner is given time to rectify the problems , after which the fire department can file a court case arguing it should be shuttered  but that rarely happens. "" We need to follow a protracted legal battle , always there is pressure because the owners are influential. They can manage everything , "" he said. And speaking of owners , the Tazreen factory ' s owner tells the AP that he had permission to build a three-story building , but had added an extra five floors and had started construction on a ninth. Why ? "" My mental condition is not good , I am under pressure , please don ' t ask me anything else. "" ( The New York Times shares interviews with survivors in a lengthy piece out today. )"
116,"As the manhunt for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev continues , one of the questions getting tossed around is whether the powers-that-be overreacted by shutting down the city of Boston. ( Business Insider rounds up some of the remarkable photos being tweeted of the "" ghost town. "" ) Some samples : Nate Silver of the New York Times , via tweet : "" Can ' t wait til they catch the bastard , but it ' s valid to inquire about the tangible and intangible costs of shutting a whole city down. "" Allahpundit , Hot Air : "" You don  t want people milling about in a park when there  s a guy with a suicide vest , guns , and ammo on the loose. But then , murder suspects are on the loose all the time in big cities and nothing shuts down for them , even though in theory they  re just as likely to go out in a blaze of nutty glory among a crowd. If you  re an aspiring terrorist , knowing that you can shut down a city for a day must be encouraging. "" Andrew Sullivan , the Dish : "" I take Allahpundit  s point. If we discover this is a function of two twenty-something loser religious fanatics , what kind of precedent are we setting ? "" First line in Bloomberg report : "" An American hub of finance and technology was immobilized Friday by a terrorist manhunt that idled or distracted more than 1.5 million workers. "" Quartz reports that "" shut-it-down "" has evolved into the go-to response for cities in any kind of emergency. It quotes a security analyst calling today ' s decision smart : "" The priority is to get everyone off the streets , "" he says. "" You have a person who has shown the ability to use explosives and has firearms. That puts the public at risk , and we have learned that we have a responsibility to prevent further injury to the public. "" ( Read more Boston Marathon bombing stories. )"
117,""" It was like a horror movie , "" says a survivor of Portugal ' s deadliest fire on record , and like in a horror movie , she survived by finding a good hiding spot. The BBC reports Maria do Cu Silva and 11 others made it through the fearsome blaze by hiding for more than six hours in the water tank outside her home in Nodeirinho , which sits adjacent to the IC8 motorway that ended up littered with bodies of those trying to flee. Silva says the idea came to her after she was unable to get her 95-year-old disabled mother in a van to exit the area. More than 2,000 firefighters continue to battle the fires , one of which killed 62 people some 90 miles north of Lisbon , as authorities are coming under mounting criticism for not doing more to prevent the tragedy , reports the AP. story continues below Portugal ' s leading environmental lobby group , Quercus , issued a statement Monday blaming the blazes on "" forest management errors and bad political decisions "" over recent decades. The association rebuked authorities for allowing the planting of huge swathes of eucalyptus , the country ' s most common and most profitable species  but one that ' s often blamed for stoking blazes. Emergency services have been criticized for not closing a road where 47 of the deaths occurred as people fled the flames. Wildfires are an annual scourge in Portugal : Between 1993 and 2013 , Portugal recorded the highest annual number of forest fires in southern Europe , per a 2016 report by the European Environment Agency. Reuters reports that police believe the blaze began when lightning hit a tree. ( Read more Portugal stories. )"
118,"Search and rescue efforts continue after a condo tower partially collapsed overnight in the town of Surfside , Fla. , just north of Miami Beach. Sources tell CBS Miami that at least one person has died , while ABC11 reports at least eight have been hospitalized with injuries , with one person said to be in critical condition. Per the Miami Herald , part of the 12-story Champlain Towers South condo facing the beach on Collins Avenue crumbled around 2am on Thursday. The paper notes that about half the tower appears to have been affected. One man whose wife was staying in the condo as an overnight caretaker says , "" She said she heard a big explosion. It felt like an earthquake. "" story continues below More than 80 units responded to the scene to help conduct rescue efforts , with multiple fire departments joining the county ' s Technical Rescue Team , Miami-Dade Fire Rescue tells NBC 6. The Washington Post reports that firefighters could be seen using ladders to get people out of sections of the condo that hadn ' t collapsed. CBS reports a boy of about 10 was rescued , and NBC 6 has video of a child ( perhaps the same boy ) being pulled alive from the rubble. The scene looked "" like a bomb hit , "" a witness tells the outlet , which notes the condo , built in 1981 , has more than 130 units. Insider notes the condo tower is located about a block away from where Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump are leasing a home. It hasn ' t yet been said what may have caused the collapse. This is a still-developing story. ( Read more building collapse stories. )"
119,"A wildfire is raging on the property of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles , but don ' t fret about its masterpieces being turned to ash. The building is a "" fireproof fortress "" specifically designed to withstand natural disasters like earthquakes and wildfires , per the Guardian. The art is safest inside the museum situated on nearly 25 acres as "" our buildings are stone , concrete and steel "" and "" the rooftops are stone , to prevent embers from landing and igniting , "" spokeswoman Lisa Lapin tells CNN. There ' s also a fancy air filtration system that pushes and pulls air , allowing officials to keep smoke away from the double-enclosed galleries , which are actually buildings inside of other thick-walled buildings. Extra layers of protection sit outside the galleries , which have now been sealed. story continues below Beneath fire retardant plants is a sprinkler system connected to a million-gallon water tank. "" We can use it for our own fire prevention , "" Lapin tells the Guardian , which reports firetrucks were "" awaiting commands "" in the museum ' s parking areas on Monday as the fire was "" licking parts of remote canyons nearby. "" Perhaps sparked by a downed power pole , the Getty Fire has burned more than 618 acres , destroyed eight homes , and damaged six others , reports Bloomberg , which notes the evacuation area includes some of Los Angeles ' wealthiest neighborhoods , in addition to the museum. "" The good news is that the fire has not grown at all , "" Mayor Eric Garcetti said at a news conference Monday. However , dry winds are now expected across the region , per Bloomberg. ( LeBron James was forced to flee. )"
120,"The New York Times continues raising alarms about the drilling practice known as hydrofracking , in which water is blasted into rock to extract natural gas. Today ' s piece focuses on the dangers posed by the contaminated water that returns to the surface. Drilling companies in Pennsylvania have billed water recycling as the solution , but the Times finds that less than half the wastewater produced is being reused in the drilling process  and even then the process leaves behind toxic sludge or salt. story continues below What ' s more , some well operators are selling their wastewater to municipalities to be used in road de-icing and dust suppression , two methods that can result in the water leaching into the drinking supply. ( Arkansas is also big on hydrofracking , but its geology allows drillers to dispose of wastewater by injecting it back into the ground ; which is fine , except for the suspicions that it ' s causing earthquakes. ) Meantime , the Times investigation that ran Sunday has prompted Pennsylvania ' s governor to ask the FDA to ramp up water safety tests , notes the Scranton Times-Tribune. ( Read more hydrofracking stories. )"
121,"The 7.7 quake that shook Pakistan yesterday killed more than 200 people but also gave the country some new land  at least temporarily. Crowds of residents on the coast , far from the epicenter , saw a new island rise from the Arabian Sea after the quake , NBC News reports. Residents say a similar island arose for around a year after a 1968 quake , and experts believe this island is also a temporary formation caused by a "" mud volcano "" gushing to the surface as the quake destabilized the ocean floor. story continues below During a strong quake , "" sandy layers underground are shaken , and sand grains jiggle and become more compact , "" forcing water up along with mud and sand , a seismologist explains. The death toll from the quake has risen to 208 , with almost 400 injured. The army has sent hundreds of soldiers to join rescue operations in a remote area near the border with Iran where the quake collapsed hundreds of mud houses , Reuters reports. ( Read more Pakistan stories. )"
122,"A popular and inspiring 2012 TED Talk extolled the benefits of "" power posing "" : That is , stretching your body into what researchers called "" open , expansive postures "" associated with dominance in order to feel more powerful. It ' s an encouraging idea , as the researchers put it , "" that a person can , by assuming two simple one-minute poses , embody power and instantly become more powerful. "" ( See some of the poses here. ) But new findings are casting doubt on the original US study , Ars Technica reports. A University of Zurich researcher led an effort to replicate the findings , but it didn ' t work out the same way. Both studies involved participants giving saliva samples and engaging in various poses , either "" open "" or more closed-in. But the new study involved 200 participants , compared to the original study ' s 42. story continues below And in the new study , participants got their instructions through a computer rather than a person , thus theoretically preventing the possibility that an experimenter was creating some kind of bias with her instructions. After performing their poses , subjects participated in games along the lines of gambling , which involved deciding what level of risk to take or how competitive to be. While the subjects who ' d performed power poses said they felt more powerful , they didn ' t actually behave differently in the games , Ars Technica reports , nor did saliva samples indicate a difference in hormones between the two groups. Still , there are a number of complicating factors , including the fact that the two studies were performed in different countries. ( Feeling an inspiration drought ? Here are some uplifting stories to fix that. )"
123,"Ready to rumble ? The world ' s largest volcano  Hawaii ' s Mauna Loa  appears to be stirring back to life after a relatively quiet 30 years , geologists say. Don ' t fret : It isn ' t about to erupt at any minute , but four separate clusters of smaller earthquakes have been reported under Mauna Loa over the last 16 months , including as recently as April and May of this year , reports LiveScience. Geologists from the Hawaii Volcano Observatory note that similar events preceded the volcano ' s last eruption in 1984  though these latest quakes are smaller in comparison  which may indicate magma is on the move. story continues below As Wired explains further , the depth and location of the quakes suggests that magma is "" refilling the reservoir that feeds Mauna Loa. "" Prior to the 1984 blast , scientists also observed ground deformation at the volcano ' s surface , as well as changes in gases streaming from cracks , and nothing like that has been seen in the last year or so. Still , the US Geological Society posted a photo on Instragram this week with the phrase , "" A Stirring Giant ? "" notes EarthSky.org. You can track updates from the USGS on Mauna Loa here. ( Scientists recently discovered a pair of rare tar volcanoes while searching for shipwrecks. )"
124,"Trouble in the heartland for the Trump administration ? The Department of Agriculture says it pulled all of its staff from a tour of corn and soybean fields in the Midwest after a credible threat was made against an employee. Sources tell Reuters that the threat was made in a phone call from an angry farmer. The sources say Lance Honig , crops chief of the department ' s National Agricultural Statistics Service , was among the staffers who had to leave the Pro Farmer Midwest Crop Tour. Honig was due to address the tour in Nebraska City , Nebraska , Tuesday but appeared in a video interview instead , reports Bloomberg. An employee received a threat "" from someone not involved with the tour , "" NASS administrator Hubert Hamer said in a statement. "" As a precaution , we immediately pulled all our staff out of the event. "" story continues below Farmers have been hit hard by the trade dispute with China  and by a drop in commodity prices caused by larger-than-expected federal crop estimates. Planting this year was delayed by flooding and farmers expected estimates to be significantly reduced. In the interview , Honig admitted that this season has been "" horrific "" for farmers , but defended the service ' s methodology and stressed that the Department of Agriculture has no political bias. Illinois farmer James McCune tells Reuters that he can understand why somebody was angry enough to make threats. "" Any farmer who talked to the USDA guy who made the crop report would probably say something derogatory to him , "" McCune says. "" I don  t know anybody that agreed with that stuff. "" ( Read more Department of Agriculture stories. )"
125,"Albuquerque is dealing with so many grasshoppers that their swarms look like rain on weather radar , ABC News reports. "" We have actually been noticing the insects on radar since about Memorial Day , "" says a National Weather Service rep. At first , the service couldn ' t figure out what the radar was showing. "" We actually thought the radar was broke , so we had our technicians go out there a couple times , "" says a forecaster. Radar experts in Oklahoma ultimately explained what was going on , KRQE reports. story continues below The city is facing volumes of the creatures not seen since the 1990s , a local official says. "" They fly into people  s faces while walking , running , and biking. They are hopping into people  s homes and garages , they splatter the windshield and car grill while driving , and they will eat people  s plants , "" he adds. The infestation is a result of drought , a researcher explains : "" Because of the dry winter , the ( grasshopper ) eggs survived. "" Insecticides won ' t help much ; any grasshoppers killed will just be replaced by others , the official notes. All locals can do is "" wait it out  As with everything , this too shall pass. "" ( Read more Grasshopper stories. )"
126,"Thousands of California ' s famed giant sequoias are doomed in the wake of devastating wildfires that have swept the Sierra Nevada. Per ABC News , upwards of 10,000 of the trees , which can reach 275 feet and live for 3,000 years or more , must be culled for safety reasons. The trees line Generals Highway -- which cuts through Sequoia National Park , Giant Sequoia National Monument , and Kings Canyon National Park -- and have been weakened not only by the fires but by drought and disease. Per an NPS press release , the "" hazard trees "" have a high probability to fail and the potential to strike people , cars , other structures , or create barriers to emergency response services. story continues below In worse news for the rare giants , the release goes on to say that count does not include hazard trees in the backcountry , where mitigation planning is ongoing. As The Hill notes , the Kings Canyon National Parks Complex fire , which started Sept. 10 , has left the highway closed for weeks. The NPS estimates the fire is 60 percent contained , having now burned 138 square miles. Earlier this month , officials revealed that "" hundreds "" of sequoias had been killed by the blaze , which was started by lightning on Sept. 9 has burned into 15 giant sequoia groves in the park. Multiple burned trees fell in Giant Forest  which is home to about 2,000 sequoias , including the General Sherman Tree , considered the world ' s largest by volume. ( Read more giant sequoias stories. )"
127,"The giant Rim Fire near Yosemite is still growing  it ' s now the sixth-largest in California history  but it ' s also slowing , and firefighters expect to have the 301-square-mile blaze fully contained by Sept. 10 , the Los Angeles Times reports. How will they do it ? By setting more fires inside containment lines , which will burn vegetation in the fire ' s path , helping to slow or stop its spread. Cool temperatures , high humidity , and slowing winds have already helped crews gain better control of the flames , now 30 % contained. story continues below No one has died in the blaze , but it did put a damper on David Hermanson ' s 10-day trek through Yosemite earlier this week. He tells CNN he knows Yosemite well , but what he thought was a brewing thunderstorm near Dorothy Lake turned out to be a massive cloud of smoke. "" It looked surreal , "" he says. "" We were just engulfed with smoke. "" The truck he and his companions returned to was a burnt shell , but otherwise the group was unharmed. The llamas they had with them ? "" They were sneezing a lot , "" Hermanson says. "" I think they may have been bothered by the smoke. "" ( Click to read about how a Predator drone is helping firefighters. )"
128,"Scientists have detected previously unknown movement along the San Andreas Fault , although the discovery doesn ' t change the two most important facts : There will be a major quake along the California fault at some point , and nobody knows just when it will happen. The analysis of GPS data found that large areas of land along the fault , including the Los Angeles Basin , are rising by 2mm to 3mm a year  which NBC San Francisco notes counts as major movement in seismic terms  while other areas , including Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo counties , are sinking. The motion makes it seem like the huge 125-mile lobes of land along the fault are "" doing the wave in slow motion , "" reports Live Science. story continues below Lead study author Sam Howell of the University of Hawaii tells the Los Angeles Times that the movement is the result of a buildup of seismic energy , which will eventually be released in an earthquake. He says they happen along the fault roughly every 150 years , and while the last major one was 159 years ago , stress has been building up in some areas for centuries longer. The movement will help researchers "" understand more about how the fault is behaving and the effect it ' s going to have in the surrounding region , "" he says , though it won ' t be any help in predicting an exact date for the next quake. "" It ' s pretty much impossible to say when the next one will happen. "" ( The director of the Southern California Earthquake Center says the southern part of the fault "" looks like it ' s locked , loaded , and ready to go. "" )"
129,"In the wake of Nepal ' s nightmare earthquake , a group of Americans was among hundreds of people left stranded on the world ' s tallest mountain , ABC News reports , and their base camp doctor was among three Americans killed. "" We have been up here at Camp 2 hanging tough , but we are running low on food and fuel and we have to get down , "" said Garrett Madison. "" There ' s no path or route through the Khumbu icefall at this point in time  At this point our only option to get down is by helicopter evacuation. "" Good news , per the group ' s blog : today they made it to base camp. Meanwhile , some 180 people have been rescued via helicopter from about halfway up the mountain , Bloomberg reports. story continues below Ultimately , "" I believe everyone who is fairly well supplied and uninjured at this point is going to be rescued , "" the chief executive of a rescue operation tells Quartz. Flying a helicopter at that altitude is a dangerous prospect , Quartz notes , "" because helicopters don  t operate as safely as fixed-wing airplanes in the lower-density air found higher up in the atmosphere. "" Madison ' s fellow climber who died was physician ' s assistant Marisa Eve Girawong , 28 , mycentraljersey.com reports ; she died at the group ' s demolished base camp. She had been in Nepal since last year. Seventeen people died on Everest ; the other Americans were Tom Taplin , 61 , a filmmaker from Santa Monica , Calif. , the Los Angeles Times reports , and Google exec Dan Fredinburg. ( Read more Nepal stories. )"
130,"In a development that will have no effect whatsoever on the presidential race , thousands of uncounted ballots from American citizens have been found a week after Election Day. The election commission in Puerto Rico says more than 100 briefcases holding uncounted votes have been found since Nov. 3 , which could change the outcome of some tight races on the island , the Miami Herald reports. Francisco Rosado , the commission ' s president , said the briefcases were found in a secured vault. "" We ' ve identified , much to our regret , a disorganization in the handling of material in the vaults , "" he said Tuesday , per the AP. "" Misplaced. Poorly organized. We have to admit that. "" Puerto Ricans can vote in presidential primaries but the island doesn ' t have any Electoral College votes. story continues below Rosado blamed the situation on an understaffed administrative board that had to deal with a flood of early and absentee ballots. He estimated that up to 5,000 ballots were involved. The finding may force a recount in races include the close contest for mayor of San Juan. Puerto Ricans say the debacle , which follows a botched primary in August , has shaken their faith in the election system. "" The whole tragedy here is not so much how it turns out in the end , but it  s that I don  t think anyone in Puerto Rico after a failed primary and this current process can really say they trust the system , "" William Ramirez , the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union in Puerto Rico , tells the New York Times. ( Read more Puerto Rico stories. )"
131,"The EPA ' s website dedicated to climate change indicators wasn ' t updated once under the Trump administration. Now , it ' s been given a facelift  and a disturbing one at that. The US is in unprecedented territory with the effects of climate change intensifying even since 2016 , according to the assessment , which finds summer heat waves in large US cities are occurring six times a year on average , up from two in the 1960s. To stay cool , Americans have "" nearly doubled summer energy use over the past half-century and added even more greenhouse gases to the atmosphere , "" per the Washington Post. Wildfire and pollen seasons have been extended , while coastal flooding is occurring more often in all 33 areas of study on the Pacific , Atlantic , and Gulf coasts. In many spots , floods are "" at least five times more common than they were in the 1950s , "" the EPA says , per the New York Times. story continues below No area is unaffected , EPA Administrator Michael Regan said Wednesday. "" Americans are seeing and feeling the impacts up close with increasing regularity. "" He added "" climate facts are back on EPA ' s website where they should be , "" per Axios. The 54 climate change indicators "" paint a grim picture , "" per the Times. Surface temperatures across the lower 48 states have increased by as much as half a degree per decade since the 1970s. Alaska has seen a more pronounced increase , while losing year-round permafrost. In 2020 , when ocean temperatures hit a record , Arctic ice cover was the second-smallest on record. The data "" suggests disastrous times ahead if the United States and other industrialized nations do not act quickly on global warming , "" per the Post. ( The Biden administration , which rejoined the Paris climate accord , has vowed to cut US greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2030. )"
132,""" Flood-prevention efforts have become very difficult , "" said China ' s Xi Jinping in a televised statement. That ' s putting it mildly as central China experiences flooding said to be the heaviest in 1,000 years. The downpour is slamming Henan province and its capital of Zhengzhou , which in three days has seen as much rain as it typically does annually. The result : streets flooded neck-high ; ditto subways , with deadly results , reports the Telegraph. On Tuesday at least 12 people died after being trapped up to their necks in flooded subway cars. Zhengzhou was hammered by 24.5 inches of rain on Tuesday  8 inches of it between 4pm and 5pm , per the AP  and subway passengers took to social media to plead for assistance. story continues below CNN quotes one woman as writing , "" The water inside the carriage has reached chest-levels ! I already can ' t speak anymore , please help ! "" The BBC quotes another as writing of water that leaked through closed doors and increased from "" our ankles to our knees to our necks. All of us who could , stood on the subway seats. "" CBS News flags what it calls "" nerve-shredding images "" posted to social media that show passengers trying to cope with rapidly rising water levels. The heavy rain isn ' t expected to let up until Thursday. The AP notes that flooding is commonplace in China during the summer , and Henan is at particular risk as it sits in the Yellow River basin ( with Zhengzhou on the Yellow River itself ) , where rivers are prone to flooding and where extensive dam construction has severed connections between rivers and lakes and altered flood plains that historically soaked up much of the rain. ( Read more flooding stories. )"
133,"With the pandemic going strong , after flooding ruined farms and tons of produce across the southern part of the nation , China has intensified its efforts against food waste. China must "" maintain a sense of crisis about food security , "" President Xi Jinping said. The "" Clean Plate Campaign "" is to intended to decrease the waste that Xi called "" shocking and distressing , "" the BBC reports. A catering association called on restaurants in Wuhan to follow a system it called "" N-1 , "" in which a group is limited to one fewer dish than the number of its members. That struck online critics as unworkable. "" What if one person goes to a restaurant alone ? "" a post read. "" How many dishes can he order ? Zero ? "" Media reports have said China might on track for a food crisis ; a state newspaper disputed that. Waste is the biggest threat to the nation ' s food security , per the Global Times. story continues below "" Operation Empty Plate "" was begun in 2013 , mostly aimed at the over-the-top feasts that officials regularly enjoy. Another influence are the popular livestreams of diners gorging on large meals , often vomiting afterward. Obesity is an issue , too ; China now has more obese people than the US. A 2018 report found that China wastes enough food every year to feed 30 million to 50 million people , per China Daily. Shanghai enacted regulations last year requiring the proper recycling of food waste by people and companies. Other cities followed suit. Xi efforts , begun in 2012 when he assumed power , had some success , per India ' s National Herald. But there ' s been slippage ; an empty plate at gatherings is still sometimes seen as an indication of a bad host. This time , Xi is tying the campaign to a need to help other countries , as well , struggling during the pandemic. ( Read more food waste stories. )"
134,"Los Angeles firefighters rescued 15 terrified residents from the rooftop of a 25-story high-rise apartment building where a windswept fire broke out on the sixth floor and sent choking smoke billowing through the upper levels Wednesday morning , the AP reports. Two people were critically injured , authorities said. There were early reports that some people had jumped from the building , but officials later said that wasn  t true. Inflatable air cushions were ready on the ground in case of jumpers , CBS Los Angeles reports. A helicopter crew member on the roof helped attach each person to a line and they were hoisted into the hovering chopper one by one. At one point firefighters lifted a small white dog into the helicopter. story continues below "" We have rarely done rooftop evacuations for medical purposes , "" Fire Chief Ralph Terrazas said. "" Rarely. "" Deputy Fire Chief Armando Hogan said the fire was put out shortly before 10am , about 90 minutes after firefighters responded. Eight people were injured , including a 3-month-old infant , mostly due to smoke inhalation ; six of them were taken to hospitals , including the two adults with critical injuries. Hogan said the cause of the fire is under investigation , with firefighters looking into the possibility it was deliberately set. Terrazas added , "" It is suspicious right now. "" Hogan said one man was hanging onto the edge of the building contemplating jumping ; eyewitness video shows him scaling the side of the West LA building before firefighters managed to talk him out of it and pull him to safety , per NBC Los Angeles. "" He was literally like Spider-Man , "" said a resident. ( Read more fire stories. )"
135,"Colin Powell today called out the Trayvon Martin verdict , calling it "" questionable judgment on the part of the judicial system down there , "" but predicting that the case would fade quickly from national memory. "" I don ' t know if it will have staying power ,  Powell said on Face the Nation , as per Politico. These cases come along , and they blaze across the midnight sky and then after a period of time , they ' re forgotten.  He also applauded President Obama ' s comments on the verdict , saying , "" I ' d like to see him be more passionate about race questions , and I think that was an accurate characterization of some of the things that we were exposed to. "" Powell said he himself had been "" refused access to restaurants , even though I had just come back from Vietnam , "" and told "" we can ' t give you a hamburger. "" story continues below Powell also had a little advice for fellow Republicans pushing voter ID laws , adds the Huffington Post : "" Here ' s what I say to my Republican friends : The country is becoming more diverse. You say you want to reach out. You say you want to see if you can bring some of these voters to the Republican side. This is not the way to do it. The way to do it is to make it easier for them to vote and then give them something to vote for that they can believe in. "" ( Read more Colin Powell stories. )"
136,"Extreme drought conditions in California have caused residents to face government fines , paint their lawns , and stress about their beloved giant sequoias. Now the whole country might be joining in the state ' s water woes : Production of the special rice used in sushi , grown mainly in California , is set to decline by 25 % in 2014 because farmers were limited to how many acres they could adequately water , Politico reports. Translation for the rest of us  sushi restaurants are going to have to decide whether to take the financial hit themselves or ask customers to pay higher prices for their tempura , tuna , and Tijuana rolls , according to a California Restaurant Association spokeswoman. story continues below Most of the state is high and dry , categorized as being in "" exceptional , "" "" extreme , "" or "" severe "" drought conditions , the United States Drought Monitor indicates. A California Rice Commission spokesman says rice production could be down by more than a billion pounds , as per Politico , affecting restaurants and even schools that train sushi chefs. Rice is thriving in other parts of the country  overall rice production will be up 21 % this year , according to AGWeb.com  but chefs are partial to the short-grain Japonica rice typically used in sushi dishes. Still , one general manager of a California rice co-operative worries , via Politico : "" If the price gets too high , does the end user start going to substitute products or maybe an inferior rice ? "" ( Read more California drought stories. )"
137,""" This fire has the characteristics of western fires , of California fires , "" a North Carolina fire chief tells the Charlotte Observer as dozens of major wildfires blaze in the drought-ravaged South. "" This is the worst I ' ve ever seen. "" The Tennessee Division of Forestry is currently fighting 67 wildfires over about 16,000 acres. Fire officials say the largest active wildfire in the region has now burned more than 19,000 acres in the north Georgia mountains , an area larger than New York ' s Manhattan. All told , wildfires have burned more than 80,000 acres of forest and blanketed large areas of the south in dangerous haze. A section of the Appalachian Trail several miles long has been closed as a result of fires in Georgia and North Carolina , and NPR reports people are being evacuated in those states as well as Tennessee. story continues below With no sign of coming rain , the Tennessee Valley Authority has issued a burn ban on its public lands in seven states , the AP reports. The TVA on Tuesday said the ban applies to anything that might produce an open flame , from campfires to smoking cigarettes. It ' s even prohibited to park a car off-road where a hot tailpipe might light up dry grass or leaves. The rules apply across Tennessee and in parts of Alabama , Georgia , Kentucky , Mississippi , North Carolina , and Virginia. Meanwhile , Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam has banned outdoor burning in more than half the state ' s counties through Dec. 15. ( Read more wildfires stories. )"
138,"For years , researchers have been stumped by an ancient Chinese civilization on the banks of the Minjiang River that suddenly vanished around 3,000 years ago. "" The current explanations for why it disappeared are war and flood , but both are not very convincing , "" says the co-author of a new study that thinks it ' s solved the mystery of Sanxingdui ' s abandonment. Researchers say an earthquake caused massive landslides that dammed Sanxingdui ' s main water source and diverted it elsewhere between 2,800 and 3,000 years ago , LiveScience reports. The study concludes that the civilization  capable of producing impressive 8-foot-tall bronze sculptures unlike anything else in the world at the time  deliberately packed up and followed the water to a new location. story continues below That new location may have been the ancient city of Jinsha nearby. Some believe a gold crown at Jinsha , similar in design to a golden staff at Sanxingdui , is proof. Elephant tusks , sculptures , and jade and stone artifacts found in two pits in 1986 were perhaps purposefully hidden before the move. There ' s more evidence of an earthquake : Geographical data shows a temblor occurred in the walled city ' s general region sometime between 3,330 and 2,200 years ago and that massive flooding occurred. Researchers note that ancient writers recorded an earthquake 250 miles from Sanxingdui in 1099 BC ; Sanxingdui didn ' t have writing at the time , so it ' s possible the quake was closer but went unrecorded. ( Archaeologists claim to have found the place where Jesus preached. )"
139,"Rod Blagojevich is going home. President Trump on Tuesday commuted the sentence of the former Illinois governor , reports ABC News. Blagojevich has been imprisoned since 2012 after being convicted on corruption charges. Among other things , he famously tried to sell the vacant Senate seat of Barack Obama after Obama won the 2008 presidential election. Also Tuesday , Trump pardoned former NYPD commissioner Bernie Kerik and , earlier , he pardoned former NFL owner Edward Debartolo Jr. Coverage : Blagojevich was serving a 14-year sentence and expected to get out in 2024 with good behavior. Instead , the AP reports that he is expected to walk out of prison on Tuesday. story continues below Trump spoke briefly to reporters after the news , saying he didn ' t know Blagojevich well ( he noted Blagojevich ' s appearance on Celebrity Apprentice ) and characterizing his 8 years behind bars as a "" long time , "" per ABC. He also called Blagojevich ' s 14-year sentence "" ridiculous. "" Trump had previously floated the idea of commuting the sentence. Talking Points Memo notes Trump also cited Blagojevich ' s kids : "" They  re growing older , they ' re going to high school now , and they rarely get to see their father outside of an orange uniform. "" The New York Times reports that members of the GOP told Trump not to do it , "" arguing that Mr. Blagojevich ' s crime epitomizes the corruption that Mr. Trump had said he wanted to tackle as president. "" To that end , this from the conservative site Twitchy : "" Is that how you ' drain the swamp ' ? By letting people in the swamp out of it ? "" And the conservative Washington Examiner calls the commutation "" very swampy , "" arguing Blagojevich does not deserve it and that the president ' s move "" doesn ' t simply fuel the swamp. It floods it with gallons of festering water and a banqueting invitation to the mosquito corruption clique. "" But Media Matters argues the commutation shows the influence Fox News has over Trump , calling the conservative hosts "" sympathetic "" to Blagojevich ' s cause. The site notes that among Trump ' s remarks Tuesday was this one : "" I watched his wife on television , "" which it pegs as a "" clear reference "" to her at least seven appearances on Fox News. As for Kerik , the New York Post reports that he was actually released from prison in 2013 after serving three years of a four-year sentence. He previously pleaded guilty to tax fraud and lying to those vetting him for the position of Homeland Security director after George W. Bush nominated him. CNBC reports via the White House that Trump "" granted some form of executive clemency "" to 11 people on Tuesday. Another one making headlines was former "" junk bond king "" Michael Milken , whom Trump pardoned , Reuters reports. Since serving two years behind bars on securities violations charges , he has started a nonprofit that funds research on cancer , financial markets , and a wide range of other issues. The rest of those 11 : Pardons were given to entrepreneur Ariel Friedler , former contractor Paul Pogue , former US government procurement officer David Safavian , and Angela Stanton , who was implicated in a stolen vehicle ring. Commutations were given to three women , two who were convicted on drug charges and one on healthcare fraud charges. ( Read more Rod Blagojevich stories. )"
140,"Ai Weiwei announced on Instagram that he got his passport back today , four years after it was confiscated by Chinese authorities. The artist and government critic posted a photo of himself holding a Chinese passport with the caption , "" Today , I got my passport. "" Ai was detained by authorities for about three months in 2011 but not charged. Ai ' s design firm later was slapped with a $ 2.4 million tax bill , which he fought unsuccessfully in Chinese courts. Ai ' s representative confirmed the passport had been returned , but didn ' t immediately respond to further questions. Chinese authorities often deny passports to dissidents who might embarrass the Communist Party overseas. story continues below Ai ' s work has been shown worldwide , making him one of best-known Chinese dissidents. Before his detention , Ai had spoken out about a number of national scandals , including the deaths of students in shoddily built schools that collapsed during a massive earthquake in 2008. The government has blacklisted him from any mention in state media , and he is supposedly not allowed to post anything on China ' s social media. ( Read more Ai Weiwei stories. )"
141,"The Western New York gunman who yesterday morning lured firefighters to his blazing home just to shoot them down left a chilling , typewritten note , reports the Rochester Democrat and Chronicle. I still have to get ready to see how much of the neighborhood I can burn down and do what I like best : killing people ,  wrote William Spengler in a note that investigators said was a rambling two or three pages. It gave no clue as to Spengler ' s motive , they said in a press conference this morning. story continues below For an ex-convict barred from owning guns , Spengler had some pretty serious firepower on him , including a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun , a .38 caliber Smith &amp; Wesson revolver , and a Bushmaster .223  the same weapon Adam Lanza carried into Sandy Hook Elementary. Webster Police Chief Gerald Pickering said police weren ' t sure which weapon killed two firefighters and injured three others , but said We  re assuming it was the rifle , because of the distance.  "" It was a combat condition ,  he said of the scene yesterday morning. Police "" were shooting at muzzle flash. "" Investigators and firefighters are continuing to comb through the scene today , and have still not located Spengler ' s 67-year-old sister , Cheryl Spengler. ( Read more William Spengler stories. )"
142,"A few lucky neighborhoods in Kansas City already have access to Google Fiber , and the cable industry better take notice , writes Henry Blodget at Business Insider. Subscribers get lightning-fast Internet for $ 70 a month , and , if they want , cable and a DVR for another $ 50. ( Internet speeds are indeed incredibly fast , as Ars Technica noted earlier this month after the rollout. ) story continues below And how about this little perk : No long service window. The Google guy , as opposed to the cable guy , shows up at a specific time , notes Blodget. It will take a while for Google to expand to the rest of the nation , and All Things Digital isn ' t yet convinced that Google wants to be a provider of broadband service. "" But if nothing else , here ' s hoping Google Fiber scares the bejeezus out of the cable industry , forcing cable companies to upgrade their own broadband services and finally put a bigger premium on customer service , "" writes Blodget. Read his full post here. ( Read more Google stories. )"
143,"A castle first built centuries before Okinawa was annexed by Japan has been devastated by fire. Police say a fire that broke out around 2 : 30am Friday has destroyed much of Shuri Castle , which was erected under the Ryukyu Dynasty around 500 years ago , the Guardian reports. The wooden structure , which was reconstructed after it was almost completely destroyed by US forces in World War II , was registered as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2000. Authorities say the cause of the fire is unclear , though it may be linked to work at the castle related to a tourist event. Authorities say the main structure of the castle and other structures in the complex , including a temple , have been almost completely wiped out. story continues below The building , which was the seat of the Ryukyu kings for more than 400 years , is located in Naha , the island ' s capital , CNN reports. It was used as a base for the Imperial Japanese Army during World War II and was extensively shelled by US forces. Reconstruction work was not completed until 1992. "" Shuri Castle has been there through everything , and was a symbol of identity for the Okinawa people , "" says BBC correspondent Saiko Shiraishi. "" Those who saw the end of WW2 in Okinawa have seen the Castle burn twice in their lifetime. Their sorrow is beyond imagination. "" Okinawa ' s tourist website says the castle also burned down three times during the Ryukyu Dynasty. ( Read more Japan stories. )"
144,"The last survivor of the devastating San Francisco earthquake and fire of 1906 has died , a relative confirmed Monday. William A. "" Bill "" Del Monte died at a retirement home in nearby Marin County on Monday. He was 11 days shy of his 110th birthday. His niece , Janette Barroca of San Francisco , says he died of natural causes and had been doing "" great for 109 years old. "" Del Monte was just 3 months old when the quake struck , forcing his family into the streets to escape in a horse-drawn buckboard with fire burning on both sides , Barroca says. She tells the San Francisco Chronicle that he worked as a stock trader , losing a $ 1 million fortune in the 1929 crash , and kept it up until last year. story continues below The earthquake and fires killed more than 1,000 people. On the April 18 anniversary , survivors used to gather at Lotta ' s Fountain in downtown San Francisco before dawn. In 2010 , Del Monte was the only survivor who made it there. "" The common thread I would draw with all of these survivors is they had a unique , dry , wry sense of humor , as anyone would have at being so rudely tossed out of bed at 5 : 11 in the morning , "" says organizer Lee Houskeeper. "" But none could compare to Bill. He had absolutely the sharpest mind of anybody I ' ve ever known. A sharp mind , a sharp sense of humor , and he was a complete flirt. My guess is there are a lot of heartbroken nurses out there today. "" ( Ruth Newman , a survivor old enough to remember the quake , died in September. )"
145,"What kind of people would set their home on fire , then falsely accuse volunteer firefighters of stealing $ 10 million in jewelry ? The Risoldi clan of Bucks County , Pa. , might fit the bill , according to prosecutors. The family fell under suspicion of fraud after a fire at Claire Risoldi ' s "" Clairemont "" mansion in 2013  the third fire in five years  which was followed by huge insurance claims , 6 ABC reports. According to a grand jury presentment , although the cause of all three fires is officially "" undetermined , "" large amounts of highly flammable material had been placed near the origin of the blazes , and home security video shows Claire Risoldi leaving the home just a minute before smoke appeared in the 2013 blaze , which contradicts the account she gave to cops and insurance representatives. story continues below Authorities say Risoldi falsely accused the firefighters of taking 55 pieces of jewelry  and the family had increased the insurance coverage on the jewelry from $ 100,000 to nearly $ 11 million just 25 days before the blaze. Risoldi , 67 , has been charged with conspiracy , attempted theft by deception , witness intimidation , and forgery , reports the AP. Her husband , two children , and a daughter-in-law are among six other people charged in the case. Prosecutors say the family used fraud to fund an "" excessively extravagant lifestyle "" ; the insurance company has paid out more than $ 20 million in claims for the three fires , and Risoldi had also allegedly made other questionable insurance claims. Around $ 7 million in family assets have been seized , including $ 3 million in cash , six Ferraris , and two Rolls-Royces. ( Read more insurance fraud stories. )"
146,"If you have an infestation of ants in your basement , do not follow the example of David Doucette and try to kill them with fire. The 21-year-old Maine man may have succeeded in exterminating the pests , but he burned down his parents ' home in the process , killing their dog and two cats , the New York Daily News reports. The state ' s fire marshal says Doucette , the only one home at the time , was trying to kill the ants with wooden matches when he ignited nearby combustible materials in the basement. He received second-degree burns to his hands while running out of the house with some of the burning items , WCSH reports. The marshal says Doucette is not expected to face charges. story continues below Parents Maurice and Barbara Doucette are known as enthusiastic volunteers in Old Orchard Beach and the community stepped up with an impressive response within hours of the blaze. Residents organized a temporary apartment , donated items , and started a GoFundMe fundraiser that has now collected more than $ 2,000 more than its $ 12,000 goal. "" We ' re a small community. When something like this happens , it ' s nice to see people step up for the family , "" John Suttie , principal of the high school the Doucettes ' daughter attends , tells the Portland Press Herald. "" Everyone knew within 10 minutes what had happened and how to help. It goes to show you the power of community and the power of technology and social media. "" ( Read more house fire stories. )"
147,"In research that didn ' t involve incredible advances in drilling technology , researchers have found some surprising secrets at our planet ' s core. What was once thought to be a single core of solid iron actually contains an inner core of its own with properties very different from what geologists who measured earthquake waves now refer to as the "" outer inner core , "" CNET reports. The iron crystals in the "" inner inner core "" are aligned on an east-to-west axis , while the outer ones are aligned north to south , according to the researchers , whose study was published in the journal Nature this week. The newly discovered core is about half the diameter of the original core area , which is around the same size as the moon. story continues below Researchers say that analysis of the core , which began to solidify around a billion years ago , could hold the key to how our planet evolved. The team discovered the inner core by analyzing the seismic waves that echo after earthquakes. "" The earthquake is like a hammer striking a bell ; much like a listener hears the clear tone that resonates after the bell strike , seismic sensors collect a coherent signal in the earthquake ' s coda , "" a University of Illinois report on the findings explains. It ' s not clear why the inner core is so different from the outer one , but a University of Cambridge expert tells the BBC that it seems "" something very substantial happened to flip the orientation of the core "" around half a billion years ago. ( An earlier study found that the core is as hot as the surface of the sun. )"
148,"New Jersey was shaking more than the crowd at a Bruce Springsteen concert Thursday afternoon , ABC News reports. Tremors  initially believed to be an earthquake  shook houses from southern Jersey to Long Island starting around 1 : 30pm local time. "" It almost sounded like an airplane was coming and then the whole house was shaking , "" an Atlantic County babysitter tells NBC Philadelphia. And police had to ask people to stop calling 911 to report the tremors. According to NJ.com , things didn ' t settle down for more than an hour. The United States Geological Survey tweeted that the shaking was caused by a sonic boom , not an earthquake. The agency states nine total booms were felt in the region Thursday afternoon , ABC reports. story continues below But what caused the sonic booms ? Initially , there was plenty of head-scratching , with everyone from NASA to a Delaware military base denying responsibility. But , finally , mystery solved : Military fighter jets were the culprit. A Navy rep confirmed an F-35C ( top speed almost 1,200mph ) and an F-18 from Naval Air Station Patuxent River in Maryland were running supersonic tests over the Atlantic Thursday afternoon. What ' s wild is that these test flights occur nearly daily in the "" Test Track , "" a region that runs parallel to the coast of parts of Delaware , Maryland , and Virginia. The AP notes that "" certain atmospheric conditions can increase the chance of hearing the booms. "" ( Read more New Jersey stories. )"
149,"The issue of "" ghost forests "" is a familiar one to climate researchers. The term refers to how rising sea levels  or , more specifically , encroaching saltwater  kills trees along the coast , per Live Science. But a new study out of North Carolina suggests that "" it ' s not just the fringe that  s getting wetter ,  Duke University biologist Emily Ury says in a statement. The study found that the state ' s Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge has lost 11 % of its tree cover since 1985  that ' s about 47,000 acres of forest  and roughly half of the loss occurred about a mile from shore , reports the Raleigh News &amp; Observer. One issue is that the same drainage ditches and canals originally intended to drain water out of the region now serve as pathways for saltwater , which is lethal to forestland , to enter. story continues below That problem became especially pronounced with Hurricane Irene of 2011 , which flooded the region and resulted in the most notable die-off of trees in the refuge during the 35-year span studied. The refuge is particularly at risk because it sits less than 2 feet above sea level , and sea levels are expected to rise from 2 to 5 feet along the Carolina coast by the end of the century , per the Duke release. These unprecedented rates of deforestation and land cover change due to climate change may become the status quo for coastal regions worldwide , with implications for wetland function , wildlife habitat and global carbon cycling , "" the researchers write in the study. The researchers also warn of a dangerous cycle : Fewer trees mean more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere , which can make climate change worse and lead to more extreme weather events. ( Read more discoveries stories. )"
150,"Imagine being chased by a Tyrannosaurus rex. Now imagine being chased by six. That might ' ve been the scenario for T. rex prey , according to new research suggesting the dino predator hunted in packs like wolves. The theory stems from a site discovered in 2014 at the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in southern Utah. Dubbed the "" Rainbows and Unicorns quarry because of the vast array of fossils contained inside , "" per the Guardian , the site includes the remains of four or five T. rex who lived and died in the same place during a seasonal flood between 66 million and 100 million years ago. "" The similarity of rare earth element patterns is highly suggestive that these organisms died and were fossilized together , "" meaning they were moving in a pack , Celina Suarez of the University of Arkansas , co-author of the study published Monday in PeerJ , tells the St. George Spectrum &amp; Daily News. story continues below Researchers located fossils of other animals thought to have succumbed to the flood , but it doesn ' t seem like they ' d died together. Some argue the tyrannosaurs were forced together due to a lack of resources. But this is the third mass T. rex death site found in North America , after others in Montana and Alberta. Alan Titus , the paleontologist who discovered the Utah site , says there ' s debate about whether T. rex had a brain capable of sophisticated social interaction. But "" this discovery should be the tipping point for reconsidering how these top carnivores behaved and hunted , "" Joe Sertich , curator of dinosaurs at the Denver Museum of Nature &amp; Science , tells the Spectrum. He notes tyrannosaurs were likely "" capable of social behaviors common in many of their living relatives , the birds. "" The study follows another that suggests 20,000 T. rex roamed the continent at one time , per National Geographic. ( More on that research here. )"
151,"A man caught on video rescuing a small rabbit from a blazing wildfire in California was hailed as a hero Thursday  but not by everybody , including experts who say it ' s debatable whether the rabbit even needed saving in the first place. Torie Bosch at Slate says risking the flames to grab the bunny was "" a stupid thing to do "" and sharing the man ' s story , possibly inspiring others to similar acts of animal rescue , is "" irresponsible. "" Tosch says the man could have required saving himself , endangering bystanders , or traumatized those bystanders by dying in his rescue attempt. And what now for the rescued rabbit ? Just release it "" so it can end up in another wildfire ? "" "" Human lives need to take precedence over animal lives , "" Tosch writes. "" Let the animals take care of themselves. "" story continues below As callous as that sounds , it ' s a sentiment echoed by Live Science , which reports that wild animals as a rule know what they ' re doing when it comes to wildfires. A report from the US Forest Service found wildfires actually kill surprisingly few animals. Rabbits can survive fires by hiding out in their underground burrows , and those that aren ' t hiding or fleeing a fire  such as the one in the video  likely have a good reason for not doing so. Animals have been observed hanging around fires in the past in order to shepherd their young out of harm ' s way. "" Fire is something animals have to deal with constantly , "" California Fish and Wildlife spokesperson Peter Tira tells the San Francisco Chronicle. Tira is asking people to ignore a post being widely circulated on Facebook advising residents to leave buckets of water out for animals fleeing the fires. "" Fire or no fire , just let the animals be , "" Tira says. ( Read more wildfires stories. )"
152,"The number of snakes under a California house was a surprise to everyone , even the snake wrangler hired to deal with them. I found a total of 92 rattlesnakes under that house  I was tickled pink ,  Al Wolf , also the director of Sonoma County Reptile Rescue , told KGO. Not tickled pink was the owner of the house , who asked not to be named so as not to freak out her neighbors. She spotted a snake and called Wolf , who came out for free. Wolf does this a lot : He removes snakes from a house and takes them to the property of people who actually want rattlesnakes hanging around for pest control. What he doesn  t see a lot of is a nest this size. story continues below His initial count was 59 babies and 22 adults , according to a Facebook post by the reptile rescue. He went back later to have another look and found 11 more snakes , bringing the total to 92. He also found a dead cat and a dead opossum , ABC News reports. Just in time for Halloween. The house was built on top of some rocks , which Wolf figures made it look like a cozy place for snakes to make a nest. He also thought the ongoing drought in the area could have sent them looking for a source of water. Pulling nearly 100 snakes out from under a house might sound like grueling work to most people , but Wolf loves snakes. "" Give me 300 , as long as I can have enough containers , I ' ll do it all day long. "" There will probably be more , Wolf told NBC News. He expects the snakes will hibernate soon now that temperatures are dropping. Which might be reassuring for some people , but sounds more like an uneasy dtente to others. Either way , Wolf will go back in April and do another check ,  he said. ( Read more weird news stories. )"
153,"The coming of the Spanish conquistadors changed Peru ' s shape forever  literally , according to researchers who say sand ridges stopped forming along the northern coast after the Incas were forced out of the area or killed by disease after Francisco Pizarro ' s 1532 arrival. Phys.org explains that radiocarbon dating shows fire pits on the area ' s coastal ridges date back 5,000 to 400 years and were used to cook mollusks , whose discarded shells were left behind. With a dearth of vegetation to anchor the sand in place , these millions of shells , researchers Daniel Belknap and Daniel Sandweiss say , held the sand ridges in place against the wind. story continues below And a fierce wind it was , with an archaeologist who previously studied the site telling Science that "" if you are there at two in the afternoon , you get these 40-kilometer winds blowing there , and your eyeglasses are scoured. "" The University of Maine , Orono , researchers began mapping the ridges , some as tall as 23 feet , in 1997 , and determined they also owed their genesis to earthquakes , which released sand down the Chira River and to an inlet , where shore currents took the sand northwest along the coast. There , the shells did the rest ; but as the Incas vanished from the area , so too did some of the later-formed ridges. "" The last 500 meters of the coast is low and hummocky , not like the discrete ridges before , "" Belknap says , with the two writing in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences that "" culture contact can lead to unexpected consequences. "" ( Read more discoveries stories. )"
154,"The Los Angeles Basin has the reputation of being a dangerous place when it comes to earthquakes , but a new study suggests that reputation might be overstated. Two scientists with the US Geological Survey looked at the region ' s biggest quakes between 1900 and 1935 and found that we humans might be more to blame than natural fault lines , reports the Los Angeles Times. The reason ? Oil production. In the Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America , researchers Susan Hough and Morgan Page show that big quakes of that era often occurred near oil wells not long after production started , reports Scientific American. That includes the magnitude 6.4 Long Beach quake of 1933 that killed 120 people , though the study merely shows a link , not proof the drilling was to blame. story continues below It was kind of more of a Wild West industry back a hundred years ago , and the technology wasn  t as sophisticated ,  says Hough. People would just pump oil , and in some cases the ground would subside  fairly dramatically.  The scientists say their study shouldn ' t be used in the modern debate over fracking , which involves an entirely different process. They also note that today ' s oil-drilling practices are safer , including the use of water to replace oil , and thus their results "" do not necessarily imply a high likelihood of induced earthquakes at the present time , "" per NPR. The LAT sees good and bad news : The study suggests the region isn ' t as prone to natural quakes as believed , but it also suggests that humans play a greater role in inducing them than thought. ( Are the Sierras overdue for a big one ? )"
155,"Japanese Emperor Akihito first spoke to his people via video message after the country had been ravaged by an earthquake and tsunami in March 2011 , reports Reuters. The second time was Monday , and his words have been just as headline grabbing. In what the Guardian calls "" a masterclass in the art of circumlocution , "" the 82-year-old hinted of his desire to abdicate : "" When I consider that my fitness level is gradually declining , I am worried that it may become difficult for me to carry out my duties as the symbol of the state with my whole being , as I have done until now. "" Such a move hasn ' t occurred since 1817  predating the country ' s modern era , which began half-a-century later  and would be complicated. The BBC explains that Akihito "" is constitutionally not allowed to make any political statements , "" which an abdication request could be perceived as. story continues below He has no political power , and the law would need to be changed to allow for a transition of the Chrysanthemum Throne ; whether to do so is now up to parliament , reports the Wall Street Journal. In his 10-minute statement , Akihito said , "" When the emperor has ill health and his condition becomes serious , I am concerned that , as we have seen in the past , society comes to a standstill. "" The Guardian notes the mourning period can last as long as a year. A complicating factor : Changing the law could open a window for discussion on broadening the rules of succession to allow women to take the throne , something traditionalists oppose. Akihito ' s eldest son , 56-year-old Crown Prince Naruhito , is next in line , but has only a daughter. ( Read more Emperor Akihito stories. )"
156,"A Georgia woman accused in the death of a toddler she was babysitting made Internet searches for "" what type of person enjoys abusing other people  s children "" and "" what does it mean to have a sudden urge to beat a child that ' s not yours , "" CBS News reports. Kirstie Flood , 29 , faces a host of charges , including felony murder , malice murder , and cruelty to children , in connection to the death of the 2-year-old , the Sandy Springs Police Department said in a statement. While police did not identify the child , WSB-TV confirmed that the victim was Fallon Fridley of Smyrna. "" She was just the light of my life , the love of my life , "" mother Kristen Fridley tells the network , adding that she has been close friends with Flood for five years. story continues below Responding to a medical call at an apartment on Dec. 9 , officers found Fallon unresponsive , according to reports. She was taken to a hospital , where she was pronounced dead. Flood claimed that the child had hit her head on a slide while at a park and never woke up. However , an autopsy showed that "" she suffered severe injuries that resulted in her death , "" per the police statement. Kristen Fridley tells WSB-TV. "" It ' s like this evil was in front of my face for years and I never saw it. "" But friends of Flood say they are in disbelief : "" She loves children. Her children are her whole world , "" one tells the outlet. "" She posts about her children every single day. She ' s an amazing mom. She would never hurt a child. "" A GoFundMe page has been set up for the Fridley family. ( Read more child murder stories. )"
157,"Some good news amid tragedy as two girls in Turkey were rescued from the rubble left by Friday ' s earthquake in the Aegean Sea , nearly three days after the powerful temblor shook that country and Greece. Per CNN , a 3-year-old girl identified as Elif Perincek was pulled alive Monday out of the debris of her collapsed apartment in Izmir , Turkey ' s third largest city , after 65 hours of being buried. Elif , said to be the 106th person rescued after the disaster , was taken to a hospital near where she was found in the Bayrakli district , the Anadolu news agency reports , via Al Jazeera. "" There was dust on her face , her face was white , "" Muammer Celik , a member of Istanbul ' s search and rescue team , told the Turkish channel NTV , via US News and World Report , adding that he initially thought the girl was dead. "" When I cleaned the dust from her face , she opened her eyes. I was astonished. "" story continues below Celik , who calls Elif ' s rescue "" a miracle , "" said Elif clung to his hand during the entire rescue. "" I am now her big brother , "" he added. Elif ' s mother , 10-year-old twin siblings Ezel and Elzem , and 7-year-old brother Umut had been retrieved from the rubble less than 24 hours after the quake hit. Unfortunately , Umut didn ' t survive. Just hours before Elif ' s rescue , 14-year-old Idil Sirin was rescued from the rubble of her own apartment. She was found after being buried for 58 hours with her 8-year-old sister , Ipek , who sadly died in the collapse. The two girls were found just one day after 70-year-old Ahmet Citim was rescued , telling rescuers , "" I never lost hope. "" Dozens died in the quake  US News &amp; World Report puts the death toll at 85 so far  with nearly 1,000 injured. The US Geological Survey has recorded the magnitude of the quake at 7.0 , though Turkish agencies measured it as slightly less. ( Read more Turkey stories. )"
158,"An Irish couple ' s idyllic Greek honeymoon has become a disaster from which only one will return. Days after arriving in the seaside resort of Mati , Brian O ' Callaghan-Westropp became separated from his new bride as they ran to escape a fast-moving wildfire ; he is now among the 81 dead , per Reuters. O ' Callaghan-Westropp and Zoe Holohan  who arrived in Greece on Saturday following their Thursday wedding in Kells  were forced to abandon their car in gridlock as winds pushed flames toward the sea. They ran in that direction but became separated close to the water , reports the Irish Times. Holohan reached a beach and realized her husband was no longer with her. The Irish ambassador to Greece confirmed O ' Callaghan-Westropp ' s body was later found , per the BBC. story continues below "" Our sympathies and hearts go out to his family at this time , "" said Orla O ' Hanrahan. She added Holohan was admitted to a hospital Tuesday with burns to her head and hands and is expected to fully recover. She ' s one of an estimated 200 people injured , per the Guardian. With another 40 missing , officials expect the death toll to continue to climb as rescue workers comb through as many as 2,500 burned homes. Identification of the deceased won ' t be easy. "" Sometimes it  s difficult to see the people ; they look like charcoal , "" the New York Times quotes a Red Cross volunteer as saying. Per the Times , an investigation into the cause will only begin when all the fires are out , though arson is suspected given "" the proliferation of so many small fires "" in drought-affected areas. ( Read more Greece stories. )"
159,"A 1-year-old boy in Washington state has become the youngest victim of the devastating wildfires burning in the Pacific Northwest. Okanogan County Sheriff Tony Hawley says Uriel Hyland died and parents Jacob Hyland , 31 , and Jamie Hyland , 26 , were severely burned while trying to escape the Cold Springs Fire , Fox reports. Relatives tells KHQ that the family , who live in the Seattle area , were trapped by the fire while visiting a property they ' d inherited in Okanogan , 150 miles northwest of Spokane. Their burned vehicle was discovered Tuesday after they were reported missing. Rescuers found the family early Wednesday on the banks of the Columbia River. The boy was dead at the scene and his parents were hospitalized in critical condition with third-degree burns , authorities say. story continues below The sheriff ' s office says the family was apparently forced to abandon the truck , which was found near their property. The Cold Springs Fire , which started Sunday and exploded in size Monday , has burned 337,000 acres together with the nearby Pearl Hill Fire. Hawley says the cause of the fire is still unclear , but if it turns out to be arson , the child ' s death will be treated as a possible homicide. "" To even be talking about the death of a 1-year-old is just devastating , "" the sheriff tells the Spokesman-Review. Elsewhere in the region , authorities say a fast-moving wildfire in Lyons , Ore. , killed 12-year-old Wyatt Tofte , who was found dead along with his dog , KGW reports. Relatives believe the boy ' s grandmother also died in the fire. ( Read more wildfires stories. )"
160,"Swamped in the middle of a drought : A massive water main break under Sunset Boulevard flooded parts of the UCLA campus yesterday , causing serious damage to buildings , including the school ' s famous Pauley Pavilion basketball arena. Millions of gallons of water flooded athletic facilities after the 93-year-old pipe broke , sending a 30-foot geyser of water into the air , reports the AP. A $ 136 million renovation of Pauley Pavilion was completed less than two years ago. "" It ' s painful. It ' s painful , "" UCLA Chancellor Gene Block told reporters. "" We just refurbished Pauley a few years ago. And it ' s a beautiful structure. It ' s , of course , a symbolic structure for this entire campus. "" story continues below Five people had to be rescued from flooded underground parking garages , where many cars were trapped by the water , though some students tried to make the most of the flood and turned up with boogie boards , reports the Los Angeles Times. It took more than three hours to shut off the pipe , and officials believe up to 10 million gallons of water were lost. "" Unfortunately , we lost a lot of water , around 35,000 gallons a minute , which is not ideal in the worst drought in the city ' s history , so we ask everybody to try harder to conserve water , "" a city councilman says. People who waste water in California can now be fined up to $ 500 per day. ( Read more UCLA stories. )"
161,"A tsunami warning has been lifted and residents of Okinawa are breathing a sigh of relief after an earthquake rattled the southern Japanese island early Saturday morning. "" First there was a strong vertical shake , then sideways , "" an official of the city of Naha tells Reuters. "" The strong quake lasted for about 10 seconds . "" There were no immediate reports of damage or casualties on the eight American military bases in the area , CNN reports. ( Read more Okinawa stories. )"
162,"When the pandemic upended American life last spring , Dr. Anthony Fauci was an incredibly busy man  but the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases director still made time to respond to a flood of emails , many of them seeking advice. The Washington Post has obtained 866 pages of Fauci ' s emails from March and April 2020 under a Freedom of Information Act request. The emails show that Fauci , who communicated with lawmakers , hospital administrators , NFL officials , and foreign governments , among many others , was puzzled by his sudden fame but tried to keep up with correspondence , sometimes sending emails past midnight. He was in frequent contact with White House officials and did not directly criticize then-President Trump , though he did accept praise for challenging Trump ' s claims about COVID-19. story continues below "" I was getting every single kind of question , mostly people who were a little bit confused about the mixed messages that were coming out of the White House and wanted to know what  s the real scoop , "" Fauci tells the Post. When a colleague sent him a link to a story about Fauci fandom , he replied , "" Truly surrealistic. Hopefully , this all stops soon. "" In one email , Rep. Fred Upton , a senior House Republican , thanked Fauci for being a "" science truth teller. "" As Trump stepped up his attacks on China , Fauci kept in contact with George Gao , director of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention , Axios reports. Gao expressed his concerns after seeing news reports that Fauci was "" being attacked by some people. "" "" Thank you for your kind note , "" Fauci replied. "" All is well despite some crazy people in this world. "" ( Read more Anthony Fauci stories. )"
163,"Lawmakers who took refuge during the attack on the Capitol might have been in a room with a person infected with the coronavirus , Congress ' attending physician warned Sunday. Some House members spent several hours in the committee hearing room , Dr. Brian Monahan wrote in an email to lawmakers. "" During this time , individuals may have been exposed to another occupant with coronavirus infection , "" he said. He recommended that the people in that room watch for symptoms to develop , as well as wear masks and practice social distancing. He also suggested they have a coronavirus test , the Washington Post reports. No information was given about the infected person. story continues below Video shows several Republican House members in the room declining masks offered by a Democratic member. Seeing the members without masks angered some congressional staff members , as well as lawmakers , per ABC. Health officials said the attack could well turn out to be a superspreader event. The building was flooded by people not wearing masks , "" then these individuals all are going in cars and trains and planes going home all across the country , "" said Dr. Robert Redfield , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , per McClatchy. ( Security is being increased for lawmakers ' travel. )"
164,"Just two days earlier , the men from Miami had arrived in Playa Hermosa de Jaco for a bachelor party celebration. On Saturday , that Costa Rican celebration turned deadly for four of the party attendees during a river rafting expedition after several rafts flipped over on the Naranjo River ; a local guide was also killed , the Miami Herald reports. The AP identifies the four US tourists as Ernesto Sierra , Sergio Lorenzo , Andres Dennis , and Jorge Caso , while the river guide  whose supervisor called him one of his most-skilled guides , per NBC Miami  has been named as Kevin Thompson Reid. CNN reports the deceased were between the ages of 25 and 35 , per Costa Rican officials. The news was confirmed by the US Department of State , with spokeswoman Heather Nauert tweeting condolences , as well as thanks to Costa Rica "" for their support in this tragedy. "" story continues below The four tourists had been part of a group of 14 who traveled to Costa Rica "" to do something special for our friend before his wedding , "" per a GoFundMe. Authorities say rain had swelled the Naranjo River on rafting day , and there was a flood alert. A party attendee who set up the GoFundMe to pay for his friends ' funeral costs says all three rafts they were in flipped after just a few minutes , tossing all 14 of them and their guides into the river. "" All of us struggled to stay above water , swallowing lots of it on the way down as our bodies ricocheted against the rocks in the water while struggling to survive , "" the page notes. Those who survived were able to grab onto rocks or other objects. Further condolences were offered by Costa Rican President Carlos Alvarado , who expressed his "" deep dismay "" in a Saturday night tweet. ( A bachelor party went wrong at a casino. )"
165,"Chile has been rocked by earthquakes lately , and now a fire raging in the colorful port city of Valparaiso has killed at least 16 people and destroyed 500 homes , President Michelle Bachelet said today. More than 10,000 people have been evacuated , including more than 200 female inmates at a prison. "" It ' s a tremendous tragedy , perhaps the worst fire "" in the city ' s history , said Bachelet , who warned that the toll of death and damage would rise. The fire began yesterday afternoon in a forested area above ramshackle housing on one of the city ' s many hilltops , and spread quickly as high winds rained hot ash over wooden houses and narrow streets in the city of 250,000. Electricity failed as the fire spread , and towering , sparking flames turned the night sky orange over the darkened remains of entire neighborhoods. story continues below Bachelet declared the entire city a catastrophe zone , putting Chile ' s military in charge of maintaining order. While 1,250 firefighters , police and forest rangers battled the blaze , 2,000 Chilean sailors in combat gear patrolled streets to maintain order and prevent looting. Shelters were overflowing , and hospitals treated hundreds of people for breathing problems provoked by the smoke. Valparaiso , which was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2003 , is known for colorful neighborhoods hugging hills so steep that people have to use staircases rather than streets. About 75 miles northwest of the capital , Santiago , it has a vibrant port and is home to Chile ' s national legislature. But many homes in poorer areas above the city center have been built without water supplies or access points that would enable firefighters to intervene , so much of today ' s fight is happening from the air. ( Read more Chile stories. )"
166,"There ' s making an entrance , and there ' s making an entrance. A determined couple in Kerala , India , traveled to their wedding venue by cooking pot , floating down flooded streets in the huge vessel. The AP reports floods and landslides killed at least 28 as of Monday in Kerala , where angry downpours have caused rivers to swell. "" We had fixed the wedding and held it at the auspicious time despite the flooding , "" the groom ' s mother said of the nuptials between son Akash Kunjumon , 26 , and Aiswarya , 22. Both reportedly work in a COVID-19 hospital ward. story continues below NBC News reports video of their Monday journey , in which their pot was pushed through the water by two men , went viral. They reportedly borrowed the pot , which they called their "" only option "" for arriving dry , per the Guardian. The AFP quotes a bystander quipping , "" Should have booked a boat instead of a car. "" CNN reports they were married in front of just a few guests at a temple as "" brown water lapped up at the edge of the building. "" It ' s not the worst flooding Kerala has had in recent memory : In 2018 at least 400 people died in floods. ( This couple married four times and divorced three times in 37 days. )"
167,"Update : As if California didn ' t have enough to not look forward to this weekend , warnings of a potentially rare "" atmospheric river "" are now being joined by ones for a hurricane-strength "" bomb cyclone , "" which takes place when a low-pressure system ' s central pressure plummets 24 millibars or more in less than 24 hours. The Weather Prediction Center says these two weather events converging will dump "" a fire hose of rich subtropical moisture into California , "" per CNN. The north and central parts of the state will see "" flooding rains , wet snow , strong winds , and coastal surf "" on Saturday night into Sunday , the outlet notes. Parts of Oregon and Washington may also be affected. Our original story from Thursday follows : story continues below California is thirsty for some rain  but maybe not this much. CNN reports that multiple storms sweeping in from the Pacific are headed toward the northern part of the state , and the rising moisture in the air could lead to a rare Category 5 "" atmospheric river "" that could spur flash floods and debris flows. The weather event  which the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration describes as being like a "" [ river ] in the sky ""  consists of a long , narrow band of concentrated moisture moving miles above the sea , with the water vapor equivalent to the amount of water you ' d see flowing at the mouth of the Mississippi River. Once an atmospheric river makes landfall , it can dump an unusual amount of precipitation. "" An atmospheric river marked as a category 4 or a 5 is capable of producing remarkable rainfall totals over three or more days , likely to exceed 10-15 % of a typical year ' s precipitation in some locations , "" Marty Ralph , who heads up UC San Diego ' s Center for Western Weather and Water Extremes , tells CNN. Northern California could see up to a foot of rain , and perhaps 3 feet of snow in the Sierra Nevada. Because California has been suffering from a longtime drought  one of the driest on record , per CBS San Francisco  so much rain so quickly will likely produce runoff , flooding , and fast-moving masses of rocks , soil , and vegetation in "" burn scar "" areas , where the landscape is especially charred and repels water. "" It ' s a big one , "" Ralph tells the Washington Post of the approaching weather pattern. There is some potential good news amid all this : The dramatic rainfall could signal the end of Northern California ' s wildfire season. ( Read more California stories. )"
168,"Nothing like a little pizza to take the edge off ... a fracking explosion. Residents of rural Bobtown , Pennsylvania , were rocked by a fracking blast last week that sparked a five-day fire and apparently killed one rig worker , Gizmodo reports. But just days later , Chevron  which owns the fracking site  sent about 100 gift certificates to locals offering each one a free large pizza and a 2-liter soda , the Philadelphia Daily News reports. "" We are sorry to have missed you , "" reads an accompanying letter that promises to "" achieve incident-free operations. "" story continues below The Tuesday blast was something else , reports the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. First a fire started at the Marcellus Shale gas well , then the heat caused a tanker-truck explosion that "" sounded like a jet engine going 5 feet above your house , "" said a neighbor. The blaze was so ferocious that firefighters had to fall back and police put up a half-mile perimeter around the site. The wells are still leaking natural gas into the air , Gawker reports , and a public-health assessment has found that the state ' s 6-year fracking boom is causing a wave of illness in Southwest Pennsylvania. ( Read more fracking stories. )"
169,"First Starbucks , now Walmart is awash in complaints about its bottled water operation in Sacramento , which has been hard-hit by conservation measures amid California ' s drought. CBS13 reports the company ' s Great Value brand water comes from the Sacramento Municipal Water Supply and is sold to bottler DS Services of America at 99 cents per 748 gallons before it lands on Walmart ' s shelves with a price tag of 88 cents per gallon , earning the two companies $ 658.24 for those 748 gallons. Walmart tells the Guardian it is "" very concerned "" about the drought , but "" our commitment to sustainability includes efforts to minimize water use in our facilities. We continue to work with our suppliers to act responsibly while meeting the needs of customers. "" story continues below Still , the transaction is "" certainly leaving a bad taste in everyone ' s mouth , "" a PR expert says. "" You can ' t water your lawn if you ' re living in this region. And to find out they ' re making a huge profit off of this , it ' s just not right. "" Though the US Geological Survey notes the bottling industry uses less than 1 % of state water , some say the plants aren ' t properly monitored. "" The entire state is under a 25 % cut , farmers are letting fields go fallow , and we don ' t have one piece of legislation regulating water bottling , "" a rep for the Gateway Neighborhood Association tells the San Francisco Chronicle. Residents of Mount Shasta are now campaigning against a planned bottled water plant from Crystal Geyser , which doesn ' t need to submit an environmental impact report or a permit to tap the area ' s water. ( Former workers are peeved at Walmart , too. )"
170,"The rim of a flat trailer tire scraping against asphalt sparked California ' s eighth largest wildfire near Redding three weeks ago , but the trailer ' s owners shouldn ' t blame themselves , many of their neighbors say. The couple , unidentified by authorities , have received at least 100 letters absolving them of blame for the deaths of at least seven people and the destruction of more than 1,000 homes across 211,000 scorched acres , per CNN and Redding Record Searchlight. Firefighters , counselors , even people who lost everything have written to the couple , with hundreds more sharing messages of support on social media. "" Sending prayers for peace and healing , "" reads one. "" It could have happened to any of us. "" The blaze was 65 % contained by early Wednesday. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
171,"Two Texas men are dead after a Tesla Model S crashed late Saturday , apparently while in autopilot mode. "" No one was driving "" when the car hit a tree in Spring around 11 : 25pm , Harris County Precinct 4 Constable Mark Herman tells Click2Houston. The brother-in-law of one man says the owner of the car decided to take his best friend out for a ride , and may have gotten into the backseat after backing out of the driveway. The car crashed just a few hundred yards later , after failing to negotiate the curve of a cul-de-sac , going off the road , and slamming into a tree. It was traveling at a high rate of speed at the time , KHOU reports. story continues below The vehicle burst into flames after crashing , and the brother-in-law says family members watched for four hours as authorities were unable to put out the blaze because the fully-electric car ' s batteries kept reigniting. Ultimately , 32,000 gallons of water were used and deputies got in touch with Tesla for help. Only after the fire was extinguished were the bodies recovered , one in the front passenger seat and one in the back. No one else was in the car. Autopsies will be performed. Investigators "" are 100 % certain that no one was in the driver seat driving that vehicle at the time of impact , "" Herman says. "" They are positive. "" The men were 59 and 69 years old. ( Read more Tesla stories. )"
172,"A critical report accusing lawmakers of helping drugmakers flood the market with addictive opioids has claimed its first political victim : GOP Rep. Tom Marino will not be the nation ' s next drug czar , reports Politico. Marino "" has informed me that he is withdrawing his name from consideration as drug czar , "" President Trump tweeted. "" Tom is a fine man and a great Congressman ! "" story continues below The joint investigation by the Washington Post and 60 Minutes said the Pennsylvania congressman was the chief advocate of a 2016 law that dramatically reduced the DEA ' s ability to stem the flow of opioids. After the report came out , Trump said he was "" looking into it , "" and pledged to pull Marino ' s name from contention if he determined that the congressman had hurt the fight against opioids. Trump is expected to formally declare a national emergency next week. ( Read more drug czar stories. )"
173,"Nestle is facing a backlash in Michigan over its plans to massively expand the amount of groundwater it pumps from the state  and pay less than $ 1 per million gallons. The company wants to more than double what it pumps from its plant in Evart to 210 million gallons a year , which will cost it just $ 200 per year because state law considers the plant to be a private well , the Guardian reports. Angry residents have written to state regulators complaining about the plan to expand operations at the plant , which is 120 miles from Flint , where tap water is still unsafe to drink. Nestle argues that the aquifer can handle the increased withdrawal and that the $ 36 million project will create 20 jobs. story continues below MLive.com reports that the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality issued a draft approval for the request and has been asking for public comment. "" Why on Earth would the state of Michigan , given our lack of money to address water matters of our own , like Flint , even consider giving MORE water for little or no cost to a foreign corporation with annual profits in the billions ? "" an Ada resident wrote to regulators. Other critics , including the Michigan Citizens for Water Conservation group , say they want outside experts to look at Nestle ' s claim that the increased pumping won ' t affect surface waters in the area. ( In California , Nestle bottled water during a drought with a long-expired permit. )"
174,"The sequoia trees of California ' s Sierra Nevada mountain range are obvious marvels. But according to new research , an unlikely and far-off source deserves a significant portion of the credit for allowing them to stand tall. The mineral that helps trees grow , phosphorus , is actually found in short supply in the granite formations of the region , so scientists have wondered how the monster trees were able to thrive , reports Seeker. Researchers , however , had a theory involving dust. To see if their theory was correct , they collected dust from four sites of varying elevations in the Sierra Nevada mountains  using a trap consisting of a bundt cake pan filled with marbles on a six-foot-tall post  then studied its isotopes to determine where the dust originated. story continues below Of no surprise , especially as the study took place in the middle of California ' s drought , was that the majority of dust came from the state  s Central Valley , per Popular Science. But 20 % of dust at the lowest elevation and 45 % at the highest elevation came from Asia  more specifically , the Gobi Desert  and carried more phosphorus than the area ' s bedrock. Researchers explain specks of dust fly around the world at high elevations , falling only when they hit something. This dust was already known to replenish the soil of tropical ecosystems as rainfall washes nutrients away. But this study suggests dust is also "" fertilizing way more of the world than we had ever anticipated , "" says the study author. "" Without tiny particles from Asia , "" Popular Science notes , California ' s sequoias might be lost. ( The trees may still be in danger. )"
175,"California ' s drought is now hitting farmers with water rights going back more than a century. The state today told those with rights dating to 1903 to stop pumping water from rivers and streams , reports the San Francisco Chronicle. Those with rights acquired later already had been ordered to cut back. The move affects rights holders in the Sacramento River watershed , the San Joaquin River watershed , and the Delta. Some farmers and ranchers have groundwater supplies that aren ' t affected , "" but the fact that the state is reaching back more than a century in the heirarchy of California water rights highlights the withering hold "" of the drought , writes the Los Angeles Times. story continues below California had to restrict the oldest of these rights holders during a drought in the 1970s , but the New York Times says today ' s cuts will hit harder because the state now has more power and ability to measure water use. In Los Gatos , meanwhile , the owners of a nudist camp have been charged with stealing water , reports the AP. Authorities say the couple who run the Lupin Lodge diverted water from a creek illegally. But the pair maintains they have a right to the water , which is used in part to top off their pool for skinny-dipping. ( Read more California stories. )"
176,"As the planet continues to warm , you can expect more droughts , more flooding , more powerful storms , and , apparently , more suicides. That ' s according to Stanford researchers who scoured data on 850,000 suicides in the US between 1968 and 2004 and 611,000 suicides in Mexico between 1990 and 2010. They see a link between temperature increases and increases in the suicide rate. Specifically , the suicide rate increased 0.7 % in the US and 2.1 % in Mexico when the average monthly temperature was 1 degree Celsius higher than normal. That was true across income levels regardless of whether the temperature rose in January or July , in hot or cold climates. "" It ' s sort of a brutal finding , "" study author Marshall Burke tells the Atlantic , with the Guardian describing expected burdens on wealthy countries where suicide rates are already high. story continues below Unless greenhouse-gas emissions are reduced , Burke predicts this link between suicide and temperature will result in another 14,000 to 26,000 US deaths by suicide by 2050 , a change equal to "" the estimated impact of economic recessions , "" according to the study published Monday in the journal Nature Climate Change. The link itself dates back to century-old observations of increases in suicide in summer months , but it remains little understood. As use of depressive language on Twitter was also found to increase with the temperature , Burke  who co-authored a 2013 study suggesting a similar effect on interpersonal violence  suggests "" there ' s a plausible biological linkage between temperature , thermal regulation and how the brain regulates its own emotion , "" per CNN. If a solution can be found , "" it has to be unprecedented , "" he tells the Atlantic. ( Read more suicide stories. )"
177,"The widow of one of the two Boston firefighters killed in last week ' s deadly fire had only one request of his fellow firefighters : Find his wedding ring. And as Kevin Cullen of the Boston Globe reports , they somehow did just that in the ruins of the Back Bay blaze. A crew went to the spot where the body of Eddie Walsh had been pulled from the fire and began sifting through the debris and ashes in a seemingly futile task. That is until one of the searchers yelled out , "" I ' ve got it ! "" A convoy then delivered it to widow Kristen Walsh  who was in church at her husband ' s wake at the time. She "" took the ring and slid it on her finger , "" writes Cullen. "" It was big , real big , but it fit in all the ways that matter. "" Click for the full story. ( Read more uplifting news stories. )"
178,"Tourists who make the arduous trek to Machu Picchu , the ancient Inca citadel built high in the Andes of Peru , might have two big questions : Why build here , and how ? A new study appears to have found the answers : Machu Picchu is built atop intersecting fault lines that form something like an X , reports Newsweek. The first obvious advantage to building in such a locale is that it already has an abundance of broken rocks in all kinds of shapes. This allowed the Incas to fit them together precisely without the need for mortar , notes Smithsonian. The fault lines also provided water by channeling rain and melting snow to the site , according to research presented at the Geological Society of America by Rualdo Menegat of Brazil Federal University. Similarly , the maze of underground fissures provided necessary drainage. story continues below "" Machu Picchu  s location is not a coincidence ,  says Menegat in a news release. His team found that the Incas built other high , rocky settlements , including Ollantaytambo , Pisac , and Cusco , on top of fault lines , too. They may not have had today ' s understanding of what the faults represented , but Menegat says the Incas clearly had some inkling of their importance because they had a word for the fractures  quijlo. By building near them , the Incas could avoid lower settlements and their associated risks of avalanches and flooding. "" No civilization could be established in the Andes without knowing the rocks and mountains of the region , "" Menegat tells Newsweek. Machu Picchu , believed to have been built around 1450 , "" is not an isolated case of Inca survival strategy in the Andes. "" ( The biggest threat to the site today is tourism. )"
179,"A Jim Beam warehouse went up in flames in Versailles , Kentucky , Tuesday night , and by Wednesday it was "" a burning pile of rubble , "" with thousands of gallons of bourbon runoff spilling into nearby waterways and "" a strong scent of bourbon ... in the air , "" per the Courier-Journal. At this point , firefighters are spraying water only on the buildings next to the burning warehouse , in order to contain the fire , a spokesperson for the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet said. "" Putting water on the fire would just increase the runoff , "" he explains. "" This fire is so hot that we think the best thing to do is let it consume all of the bourbon rather than having more of it go into the stream. "" Officials anticipate the runoff will kill a "" significant "" number of fish in the Kentucky River and Glenns Creek , but WKYT reports there are no current concerns regarding drinking water. story continues below The cause of the blaze has not been confirmed , but according to Beam Suntory , the Chicago-based spirits company that owns Jim Beam , initial reports indicate a lightning strike started it ; rain and lightning were reported in the area Tuesday night. The intense heat from the burning liquor made fighting the fire a challenge on a day when temperatures are already in the mid-to-upper 80s , officials say ; the heat even melted the windows of a nearby house. The fire did spread to a second warehouse , but flames were able to be put out in the second building. The burning warehouse contained 45,000 bourbon barrels ; a standard barrel typically holds about 53 gallons of bourbon. In a separate piece , the Courier-Journal offers a eulogy to the 6 million bottles of bourbon that may have been lost. ( Read more Jim Beam stories. )"
180,"A holy site in the West Bank often visited by Jewish pilgrims under the cover of darkness with the Israeli military protecting them was set on fire by Palestinians Thursday night. Though firefighters put out the blaze , the incident has only added fuel to the fire already burning between the region ' s Israelis and Palestinians , the BBC reports. The attack in Nablus on Joseph ' s Tomb , said to be the burial site of the Bible ' s Joseph , 11th son of Jacob , involved gas bombs and occurred just hours after Benjamin Netanyahu implored Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas to call for a stop to local violence  and a day before a planned Palestinian "" day of rage , "" per USA Today. Peter Lerner , spokesman for the Israel Defense Forces , called it "" a blatant violation of the basic value of freedom of worship "" in a tweet ; Israel ' s agriculture minister called the tomb arson "" unforgivable. "" story continues below Tensions had already descended into a death spiral , with dozens of deaths from stabbings and shootings in Israel over the past month , CNN and the BBC report ; at least seven Israelis and at least 30 Palestinians have been killed. The tomb itself has also been attacked before , including when it was almost decimated by Palestinians in 2000. CNN cites a Palestinian official who says the tomb is still standing but part of the compound has burned. Abbas spoke out against "" these kind of acts or any other acts that violate the law and order and offends our culture , religion , and morals , "" per the Palestinians ' WAFA news group , but Israel doesn ' t plan on letting things lie : Lerner tweeted that the "" #IDF will bring perpetrators to justice. "" ( Read more holy site stories. )"
181,"Tsunamis aren ' t generally cited as one of the hazards of living in New Jersey , but scientists say one hit the state ' s coast earlier this month. Experts believe the 6-foot wall of water that hit the coastal community of Barnegat Light , seriously injuring a boy and his father , was a phenomenon called a "" meteotsunami , "" USA Today reports. The huge wave was probably generated by a strong weather system offshore. story continues below The only other meteotsunamis recorded on the East Coast in recent history were in Boothbay Harbor , Maine , in 2008 , and in Daytona Beach , Florida , in 1992. "" It takes a number of special things for this to happen , which is why it doesn ' t happen very often , "" the director of the West Coast and Alaska Tsunami Warning Center tells Morning Call. There ' s also a chance the tsunami could have been caused by an underwater earthquake or landslide , but no such activity was detected. ( Read more New Jersey stories. )"
182,"Hackers behind the latest ransomware attack to paralyze businesses around the world have named their price : The Russian-language group known as REvil wants $ 70 million in Bitcoin to make things right again , reports the Washington Post. The full scope of the attack that hit just before the weekend is still coming into focus. The hackers exploited weaknesses in software made by the Miami company Kaseya that is used by tech companies to manage IT networks. The software "" is sold to managed service providers  effectively outsourced IT departments  which they then use to manage the networks of their customers , often smaller companies , "" per TechCrunch. Kaseya says about 50 of its direct customers were compromised , but those companies work with smaller businesses such as restaurants and accounting firms , and thus the problem spreads , per CNN. story continues below The company estimates that up to 1,500 small businesses have been compromised so far , and one research group has identified victims in 17 nations , per the Post. "" Our global teams are working around the clock to get our customers back up and running , "" says Kaseya CEO Fred Voccola. It was unclear whether the company intends to pay the ransom. Kaseya says it is working with the FBI and the federal Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency. One of the most tangible signs of the attack can be seen in Sweden , where hundreds of Coop grocery stores have been forced to temporarily shut down. It ' s possible more US victims will emerge as the holiday break ends. The White House says businesses affected should report it via the Internet Crime Complaint Center. ( Read more ransomware stories. )"
183,
184,"A car crash that downed power lines turned the hills northwest of Los Angeles into torches , forcing thousands from their homes and putting entire neighborhoods at risk in the prosperous semi-rural enclave of Calabasas , reports the AP. Fifty-foot-high flames erupted on the ridges and embers turned trees into candles Saturday afternoon. And while the flames eased overnight , firefighters continued Sunday to battle the blaze. Some 3,000 homes were threatened and about 5,000 residents were evacuated , the Los Angeles County Sheriff ' s Department said. The fire flared as Southern California sweltered under temperatures that hit the mid-90s in many places. At its height , the flames put about 3,000 homes at risk , although not under imminent threat , fire officials said. "" We ' re dealing with a fire that ' s moving in every direction simultaneously ... we can ' t get to everybody , "" Battalion Chief Dennis Cross told KNBC-TV. "" It ' s hard for people to see where this fire is because of the dense canopy and the canyons. "" Deputies were described as defending strangers ' home with hoses before firefighters arrived. story continues below Three homes were damaged but the extent of the damage wasn ' t clear , Los Angeles County fire Capt. Keith Mora said. Some other buildings , including some at a city park , also were damaged. The fire started as three blazes that erupted after a car hit a power pole and knocked down electrical lines. One fire in the West Hills area of Los Angeles was quickly doused but blazes in Calabasas joined and raced through drought-dry brush in hills surrounded by developments. The blaze grew to 200 acres in a matter of hours. Embers ignited trees and clumps of brush within yards of million-dollar homes. Smoke could be seen for miles. Around 200 firefighters , aided by bulldozers and water-dropping helicopters , had the blaze 15 % contained by late Saturday night. ( Read more fire stories. )"
185,"He apparently saw one way to escape. And so a man grasped the side of a 19-story high-rise that had caught fire in Philadelphia on Thursday and started descending. The unidentified man , spotted by news helicopters , climbed down 15 stories to reach the ground in a little less than three minutes , though "" it felt like an eternity for those who watched , "" reports NBC Philadelphia. A witness said the man appeared to grip the units ' railings and what looked like "" chain-link fencing "" as he made his way down. He walked away , seemingly uninjured. story continues below Not so lucky were four residents and three firefighters who suffered smoke inhalation and/or heat exhaustion in the blaze that erupted at Holden Tower around 9 : 30pm. Firefighters arrived to find smoke on all 19 floors. WPVI describes "" a fire in the lower part of the trash chute from the third floor down. "" It was brought under control by 11pm as firefighters flooded the chute with water. Evacuated residents have since returned to the building. ( Read more fire stories. )"
186,"In Southwestern states , including Arizona and California , the Saudis are making hay while the sun shines , and local farmers aren ' t happy about it. Last week , a Saudi company bought 1,790 acres of farmland in Blythe , Calif. , the Saudi Gazette reports , adding to the amount of farmland bought by Saudi investors to grow alfalfa hay on and save water in their homeland. But the Southwest has drought problems of its own , and some farmers say exporting the hay to Saudi Arabia , where it ' s fed to dairy herds , is "" exporting water "" from an area that needs all it can get after years of drought , CNBC reports. story continues below "" We ' re not getting oil for free , so why are we giving our water away for free ? "" asked La Paz County Board of Supervisors Chairman Holly Irwin tells CNBC. Saudi food giant Almarai bought 10,000 acres of farmland in the country for $ 48 million in 2014. "" We ' re letting them come over here and use up our resources , "" Irwin says. "" It ' s very frustrating for me , especially when I have residents telling me that their wells are going dry and they have to dig a lot deeper for water. "" CNBC notes that despite drought-related restrictions on water use , the Saudis have been able to buy in areas where there are few restrictions on groundwater consumption. ( The Saudis may not be able to afford as much farmland now that oil prices have fallen to their lowest level since 2003. )"
187,"Within a few decades , a significant chunk of the US could be in for the worst drought in more than a millennium. That ' s if we don ' t change our greenhouse-gas-emitting ways , scientists say : A study co-author says the chance of a megadrought in the central and western US sometime this century is more than 80 % , the AP reports. A megadrought is one lasting at least 35 years. The data shows "" more convincingly than ever before that unchecked climate change will drive unprecedented drying across much of the United States  even eclipsing the huge megadroughts of medieval times , "" an outside expert tells the Smithsonian. story continues below The Southwest has an 80 % risk of megadrought at the current rate of emissions , but even if we drop to "" moderate "" emissions , the risk remains high , the Smithsonian reports. Scientists turned to more than a dozen different climate models to examine the future ; as for the past , they got information from tree rings , which show how wet each year was. "" There are degrees of screwed , and this paper suggests we  re falling off the cliff , "" another expert tells Slate. Still , we have "" ample warning "" to make changes , a researcher tells the Smithsonian. "" We just need to make serious cuts in greenhouse gas emissions  Otherwise the next generations of Americans are going to have a huge problem on their hands. "" ( Already , California ' s drought has reportedly meant the loss of 11 trillion gallons of water. )"
188,"Fans , family members , and fellow musicians are mourning Dolores O ' Riordan , lead singer of The Cranberries , who died suddenly in London Monday. Dan Waite , manager of rock label Eleven Seven International , says he is stunned by the death of his longtime friend , who left him a voicemail just hours before her death. He says she told him she was looking forward to seeing him in the studio Monday , when she was to have recorded vocals for hard rock band Bad Wolves ' cover of the Cranberries hit "" Zombie. "" "" She sounded full of life , was joking and excited to see me and my wife this week , "" Waite tells People. "" The news of her passing is devastating and my thoughts are with Don her ex-husband , her children , and her mother , "" he says. story continues below O ' Riordan was found dead at a hotel Monday morning and police in London say the death is being treated as "" unexplained , "" the AP reports. She had suffered from both physical and mental health problems for years and had to cut short a Cranberries tour last year because of back problems. She spoke openly about her battles with depression , saying last year : "" You get ups as well as downs. Sure , isn ' t that what life ' s all about ? "" Among the many fans paying tribute Monday was Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar. "" For anyone who grew up in Ireland in the 1990s , Dolores O ' Riordan was the voice of a generation , "" he tweeted. "" As the female lead singer of a hugely successful rock band , she blazed a trail and might just have been Limerick ' s greatest ever rock star. RIP. "" ( Read more celebrity death stories. )"
189,"To the naked eye , life gets scarce the deeper into the ocean one goes. But both the ocean ' s surfaces and its floors are teeming with microscopic life , and the deepest point of all  the Challenger Deep canyon in the Mariana Trench nearly seven miles below sea level  is home to an abundance of an "" unexpected "" bacteria called heterotrophs. Reporting in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , researchers in Japan say the microbes are incapable of producing their own food and must scavenge from their otherwise barren environment  likely surviving on dust , dissolved fecal pellets , or sediment from above that is loosened during landslides triggered by earthquakes , reports LiveScience. story continues below "" These big slope collapses are rare accidents in terms of human life spans , but they happen very frequently on a geologic timescale , and the release of organic compounds could continue for a very long time , "" one researcher said. The team also found that phytoplankton fill the surface waters , while chemolithotrophs ( microbes capable of converting , say , sulfur and ammonia into sustenance ) dominated down to around 3.7 miles , at which point their numbers gave way to heterotrophs. Other life forms are also capable of thriving at these depths , including yeasts and viruses. ( Researchers also found hints of life in the Challenger Deep back in 2010. )"
190,"The Boy Scouts of America , fighting for survival amid a flood of sexual abuse lawsuits , has filed for bankruptcy protection. The Chapter 11 filing early Tuesday marks the start of what is expected to be one of the most complex bankruptcies in US history , lawyers tell NBC. Changes in statute-of-limitation laws in several states have led to thousands more lawsuits from men who say they were sexually abused as Scouts. The bankruptcy filing will put those lawsuits on hold. The organization said in a statement that Scouting programs "" will continue throughout this process and for many years to come , "" though the AP reports that the organization may have to sell off some of its properties , including campground and hiking trails. story continues below The organization says it plans to set up a fund to compensate all victims equally. It is expected to set a deadline for claims to be filed , the New York Times reports. "" While we know nothing can undo the tragic abuse that victims suffered , we believe the Chapter 11 process , with the proposed trust structure , will provide equitable compensation to all victims while maintaining the BSA  s important mission , "" said BSA president Roger Mosby. Lawyers say the BSA has the names of 7,819 suspected abusers in its files. Seattle attorney Michael Pfau , whose firm represents hundreds of people who say they were abused , calls the filing a "" real day of reckoning "" for the Boy Scouts and their "" horrible , sordid history of child abuse in the ranks. "" ( Read more Boy Scouts of America stories. )"
191,"Nearly a quarter of India ' s land is turning to desert thanks to over-use of land , heavy grazing , and changing rainfall patterns , says the country ' s environment minister. He warns "" land is becoming barren , "" and notes that could threaten food security in a country that houses 17 % of the world ' s population on just 2 % of its land , Reuters reports. Forbes points out 25 % desertification is a much higher figure than the one an Indian scientific council put forth in 2007. At the time , it said it said roughly 10 % of the country ' s land would become unusable desert by 2050 , and by its calculations , India wouldn ' t hit the 25 % threshold for at least a century. At this point , land degradation  which indicates a loss of productivity  is believed to be affecting 32 % of the country ' s land. ( Read more India stories. )"
192,"If you happened to see "" Sauron ' s eye "" or "" Cthulhu "" trending Friday evening , it wasn ' t because some fictional entity was making headlines. It was something even more real and disturbing  a fire in the middle of the Gulf of Mexico , caused by a leak from an underwater gas pipeline. The blaze spotted on the surface of the water early Friday west of Mexico ' s Yucatan Peninsula erupted about 500 feet from an oil drilling platform belonging to Pemex , Mexico ' s state oil company , and it took Pemex about five hours to put out the fire , extinguishing it for good at 10 : 45am local time , per Reuters. That dousing didn ' t stop the mesmerizing image of an "" eye of fire "" in the middle of the ocean from going viral , with ABC7 noting it looked like "" a scene from a disaster movie. "" "" Others said it looked like the portal to hell opening up , "" the station added. story continues below So how can an ocean , filled with water , actually catch on fire ? Simon George , an organic geochemistry professor at Australia ' s Macquarie University , tells CNET that the blaze "" was caused by methane and probably other wet gas components ( ethane , propane , etc. ) igniting at the ocean surface after leaking from the pipeline , "" with enough gas continuing to flow from the rupture to keep the fire burning. George adds that the fire may have even been helpful in one regard : "" It consumed some of the leaking hydrocarbons , "" containing some of the damage. Pemex brought boats in to douse the fire with water , per USA Today , with Reuters noting that nitrogen was also used. Pemex says no injuries were reported and that it ' s investigating the incident , per Reuters , which notes the company "" has a long record of major industrial accidents at its facilities. "" ( Read more gas leak stories. )"
193,"Some 3,000 years ago , the Bolivian Amazon didn  t look like a jungle at all  it was more like an African savannah. A new study reveals how the ancient landscape took shape , and sheds new light on the mysterious ditches the early Amazonians built there for purposes unknown. The key to the finding is pollen : As LiveScience reports , British researchers studied sediment cores from two lakes near the ditches and found that the ancient Amazon was neither deforested or virgin , but just very dry. The ancient pollen found in the cores hailed from grasses and drought-resistant trees ; then about 2,000 years ago something shifted  pollen from fewer drought-resistant species and more evergreens showed up , suggesting more precipitation. story continues below How this ties back to the ditches , which are square , straight , and circular in shape ; measure up to 16 feet deep ; and have been found throughout the Bolivian and Brazilian Amazon : There had long been a debate over the toll the area ' s early people exacted on the forest. As LiveScience explains , some believed they "" conducted major slash-and-burn operations "" ; other researchers thought they were gentle. As the lead researcher now puts it , they were "" neither. "" The ditches came before that 2,000-year-old shift , indicating the people made their ditches  whether for defense , drainage or ceremonial purposes  before the forest took shape ... which explains why they were able to build there with only stone tools. LiveScience has some photos of the earthworks. Unfortunately , the deforestation that revealed them has increased. ( Read more scientific study stories. )"
194,"Manure lagoons are about as pleasant as they sound  vast open-air ponds of manure located next to the many hog farms near the North Carolina coast. With Hurricane Florence set to wallop the area as a Category 4 hurricane , there are fears the ponds could overflow or even collapse amid extremely heavy rain , sending vast amounts of manure from thousands of farms into rivers and contaminating groundwater. Experts say the lagoons should be able to handle about 3 feet of rain , but hog farmers , who have been trying to pump manure out of the ponds and spray it on fields as fertilizer , aren ' t convinced. "" We try to pump down as much as we can , but after that , it ' s kind of in God ' s hands , "" farmer Marlowe Vaughan tells NPR. "" We ' re kind of at the mercy of the storm. "" story continues below Industrial waste , including toxic ash from power plants , could also be spread by flooding from the massive storm , which has caused mandatory evacuations of coastal areas in both Carolinas and Virginia , the AP reports. President Trump has declared an emergency in the three states and says the government is "" as ready as anybody has ever been. "" The News &amp; Observer reports that the storm ' s path shifted early Wednesday and it is now bearing down on southern North Carolina and northern South Carolina , where it could dump up to 40 inches of rain in places. Landfall is expected late Thursday or early Friday , and the National Hurricane Center fears the storm "" will slow considerably or stall , leading to a prolonged and exceptionally heavy and dangerous rainfall event Friday-Sunday. "" ( Read more Hurricane Florence stories. )"
195,"Blue Marble , yes. Cloudy Blue Marble ? Most definitely. The NASA Earth Observatory is out with another compelling image of our planet , one that shows it ' s a cloudy place. Specifically , about two-thirds of Earth ' s surface is covered by clouds at any given moment. The map is based on data collected between 2002 and 2015 by a satellite called Aqua , whose mission is to study the planet ' s water cycle , reports Discovery. Some observations : Where it ' s cloudiest : "" There are three broad bands where Earth  s skies are most likely to be cloudy : a narrow strip near the equator and two wider strips in the mid-latitudes , "" says NASA. "" The band near the equator is a function of the large scale circulation patterns  or Hadley cells  present in the tropics. "" "" There are three broad bands where Earth  s skies are most likely to be cloudy : a narrow strip near the equator and two wider strips in the mid-latitudes , "" says NASA. "" The band near the equator is a function of the large scale circulation patterns  or Hadley cells  present in the tropics. "" Much to take in : "" A lot jumps out even at a glance , "" writes Phil Plait at Slate. "" The Sahara and Middle East are obvious dry spots , as is Australia and western Chile. But note Antarctica : A lot of people don  t know just how dry it is there along its interior. "" story continues below Deserts : "" It ' s easy to see where all the deserts are , "" writes Daniel Martins at the Weather Network. "" Africa is dominated by darker hues , even beyond the legendary Sahara , as well as the Middle East and Australia. In the Americas , the US southwestern states , including drought-stricken California , stand out with their darker blues , while in South America , the near-zero cloud cover of Chile ' s Atacama Desert is a stark contrast to the whiter hues of the rest of the continent. "" "" It ' s easy to see where all the deserts are , "" writes Daniel Martins at the Weather Network. "" Africa is dominated by darker hues , even beyond the legendary Sahara , as well as the Middle East and Australia. In the Americas , the US southwestern states , including drought-stricken California , stand out with their darker blues , while in South America , the near-zero cloud cover of Chile ' s Atacama Desert is a stark contrast to the whiter hues of the rest of the continent. "" T racking mountains : "" On a more local scale , you can see cloud patterns that closely match mountain formations , "" notes Joseph Stromberg at Vox. "" In the US , for instance , clouds regularly form along the ridges of the Rocky Mountains ( and to a lesser extent the Appalachians ) because of the air masses that get blown eastward and pushed up the mountains. When that happens , they cool , and can ' t hold as much moisture  so their water vapor condenses to form clouds. "" "" On a more local scale , you can see cloud patterns that closely match mountain formations , "" notes Joseph Stromberg at Vox. "" In the US , for instance , clouds regularly form along the ridges of the Rocky Mountains ( and to a lesser extent the Appalachians ) because of the air masses that get blown eastward and pushed up the mountains. When that happens , they cool , and can ' t hold as much moisture  so their water vapor condenses to form clouds. "" But mainly : Science aside , this map is simply a "" beautiful visual , "" notes a post at Gizmodo. In other NASA news , click to read about the strange sounds recorded at the edge of space . ( Read more clouds stories. )"
196,"Venezuela just cut its workweek once again , and not because someone has been reading Timothy Ferriss. Earlier this month , President Nicolas Maduro gave Fridays off to the public sector to minimize power usage in the ongoing energy crisis. Now , VP Aristobulo Isturiz has announced those same workers  numbering about 2 million  should take Wednesdays and Thursdays off , too , effectively creating a two-day workweek , the BBC reports. "" There will be no work in the public sector on Wednesdays , Thursdays and Fridays , except for fundamental and necessary tasks , "" Isturiz proclaimed on national TV ( though Forbes wonders why "" anyone in the bureaucracy [ is ] doing anything at all that is not a ' fundamental and necessary task ' "" ) . Maduro  who said Tuesday that the revised workweek would last at least two weeks , per Reuters  has blamed the energy problems on erratic weather caused by El Nino , including a drought. story continues below "" We are requesting international help , technical and financial aid to help revert the situation , "" he said , per the BBC. "" We are managing the situation in the best possible way while we wait for the rains to return. "" Opposition members , though , blame "" mismanagement and corruption , "" CNN notes , and the New York Times reports an electoral panel has started the process to allow Maduro to be removed from office. "" Maduro says that ' we in government don ' t stop working for a second. ' Of course. Except for Wednesdays , Thursdays , Fridays , Saturdays and Sundays ! "" an opposition newspaper columnist wrote. Venezuelans are enduring ever-increasing blackouts , spoiled food , problems getting running water , and uncomfortable temperatures. "" We can ' t go on living like this , "" a man tells CNN. "" We Venezuelan people deserve much better. "" And a shop owner started to cry when asked how difficult things have been , replying , "" This life is killing us. "" ( Read more Venezuela stories. )"
197,"Grappling with spiking coronavirus cases , Texas now has another worry to contend with : extreme weather. The Texas Tribune and KTRK report that Tropical Storm Hanna is heading for the Lone Star State ' s south-central coast , set to make landfall Saturday. It ' s predicted Hanna will turn into a Category 1 hurricane , with a hurricane warning issued by the National Hurricane Center from Port Mansfield to Mesquite Bay , a stretch that includes the city of Corpus Christi. An advisory from the center warns of the "" danger of life-threatening storm surge , "" as well as heavy rains that could lead to flash flooding in areas. story continues below "" Storms like Hanna in the Gulf of Mexico are notoriously the hardest to forecast , "" a CNN meteorologist notes. "" The water is so warm under the storm that rapid intensification can happen at any time , especially overnight when atmospheric shear goes down naturally. "" Meanwhile , Douglas , the first big eastern Pacific hurricane of the 2020 season , is barreling toward Hawaii , though it may weaken into a tropical storm by the time it makes landfall , set for Sunday , Weather.com reports. The storm system could end up affecting the entire island chain , depending on the storm ' s exact track. A hurricane watch has been issued for the Big Island of Hawaii , Oahu , and Maui County , with heavy rain and winds , coastal floods , and mudslides expected. ( Read more tropical storms stories. )"
198,"At least 59 counties in Texas are now under a disaster declaration , and Gov. Greg Abbott is predicting "" a lot of devastation "" when Hurricane Laura sweeps through the state. The storm , which became a Category 1 hurricane on Tuesday , is expected to gain strength from warm waters and be a Category 3 by the time it makes landfall on the Gulf Coast near the Texas-Louisiana border late Wednesday or early Thursday. Abbott said residents should brace for "" very high winds "" and storm surges of up to 10 feet , the New York Times reports. "" There will be a lot of devastation wrecked upon Texas as the storm sweeps through , "" the governor said. Abbott said Laura would be more of a "" wind event "" than Hurricane Harvey , which caused devastating flooding in 2017 , CBS reports. story continues below "" Tornadoes will be spawned ,  Abbott warned. "" People anywhere near where the eye of the hurricane will come ashore will need to be very aware of this high water surge and the devastation it can wreak. "" The AP reports that the approaching storm has caused the largest US evacuation of the pandemic , with more than 385,000 residents told to leave the Texas cities of Beaumont , Galveston , and Port Arthur , and at least 200,000 told to flee Calcasieu Parish in Louisiana. The National Hurricane Center warned Tuesday that the storm surge "" could penetrate up to 30 miles inland from the immediate coastline in southwestern Louisiana and far southeastern Texas , "" though the area is sparsely populated , the Washington Post reports. The NHC also warned that the track could be adjusted westward by up to 30 miles , which would bring it closer to Houston. ( Read more hurricane stories. )"
199,"People in Vermont , New Hampshire , Massachusetts , New York , and Quebec , Canada , claim to have witnessed an asteroid breaking up in the sky on Sunday , which turned out to be rattling. Many people reported hearing a rumble or sonic boom as a 10-pound bowling ball-sized chunk of an asteroid  traveling at 42,000 miles per hour , or almost 55 times the speed of sound , per Live Science  "" fragmented violently , producing a pressure wave that rattled buildings , "" according to NASA. WCAX reported receiving a flood of calls from people describing "" a loud boom and a body-rattling vibration. "" story continues below Hundreds of skywatchers had first witnessed a "" fireball "" that appeared some 52 miles above Vermont ' s Mount Mansfield State Forest around 5 : 38pm. It had proceeded northeast toward the Canadian border when "" about 30 miles up , the pressure difference between front and back exceeded its structural strength , "" says NASA , which puts the force of the fragmentation at 440 pounds of TNT. The space rock broke up some 33 miles above Vermont ' s Orleans County , which borders Quebec , per NBC News. "" A nice little firework , courtesy of Mother Nature , "" as NASA put it , noting tremors were observed by seismic instruments. ( Something similar happened in the UK , followed by a spectacular discovery. )"
200,"Two weeks ago , the Huffington Post announced it would append an editor ' s note to the end of its stories about Donald Trump that defines him as "" a serial liar , rampant xenophobe , racist , misogynist , birther and bully , "" among other things. With Trump ' s Tuesday night win in New Hampshire , it turned the end note into a blazing red homepage headline : "" NH Goes Racist Sexist Xenophobic. "" story continues below The story page elaborates : "" A Racist , Sexist Demagogue Just Won The New Hampshire Primary "" reads its headline. The lengthy article recounts the events of the evening , framing them as a "" stunning turn of events for a party that vowed just four years ago to be more inclusive to minorities after failing to unseat President Barack Obama in the bitter 2012 election. What the GOP got instead is a xenophobic demagogue who ' s insulted pretty much everyone and even earned the endorsement of white supremacists. "" What Arianna Huffington had to say , via Twitter : "" Our @ huffingtonpost splash says it all # NewHampshirePrimary. "" ( Read more Donald Trump 2016 stories. )"
201,"For decades , Americans ' go-to option for non-dairy milk was soy , but that has changed in recent years. Last year , almond milk took the crown from soy as the non-dairy king , and how : In August , Bloomberg Businessweek reported annual almond milk sales of $ 738 million for the 12 months ending July 26 , versus $ 341 million for soy. But a new entrant is angling for a slice of the pie : Silk , the onetime top dairy-free brand , has this month started selling cashew milk in the US , Quartz reports. It ' s advertised as "" the first cashew milk in the refrigerated case , "" per a press release , and Silk calls it "" creamier than skim milk with 1/3 of the calories. "" story continues below Cashew milk could appeal to those who see almond milk as little more than flavored water , Quartz notes ( cashews are much softer , so as one nut milk company owner explains , there ' s much less to filter out after they ' re ground ) . It could also be handy amid California ' s drought , given that 80 % of the planet ' s almonds are grown in the state. It takes more than a gallon of water to grow one almond , Mother Jones reported earlier this year ( a single walnut , it noted , needs 4.9 gallons ) . Cashews , on the other hand , are grown all over the world , from South America to Africa to Asia. And Silk is far from the only company marketing "" milk "" made from the crop. There are already cashew-based ice cream parlors , as the Arizona Daily Star reports , while cashew milk recipes abound. Still , almonds could be tough to topple , given that this year , they became America ' s favorite nut. ( Read more almonds stories. )"
202,"America ' s Christmas lights , even those that don ' t rival the Griswolds ' , guzzle a staggering amount of electricity when compared to power use overall in other countries , according to researchers at the Center for Global Development. The festive lights use around 6.6 billion kilowatt-hours a year , according to the CGD  more than the total annual electricity consumption of countries like El Salvador , Cambodia , or Ethiopia , which has a population of around 97 million. The researchers , who used data from the World Bank and a 2008 US Energy Department study , say Christmas lights only account for 0.2 % of America ' s electricity usage , but the power is still enough to run 14 million refrigerators. story continues below Todd Moss , the COO of CGD , stresses he isn ' t a Grinch who wants to get rid of festive lights. "" I think Christmas lights are a good thing , "" he tells NPR. "" A beautiful thing ! I ' m not trying to be anti-Christmas at all. "" He says the point of the research is to highlight the huge differences in energy consumption worldwide  and the hypocrisy of wealthy countries telling nations like Ethiopia that they should only develop renewable energy sources. In Colombia , meanwhile , a severe drought has hit hydropower generation hard , causing widespread electricity rationing and forcing many cities to scale back Christmas lights , the AP reports. ( American cities get up to 50 % brighter during the holidays , and it ' s visible from space. )"
203,"Though authorities are unable to "" absolutely , positively confirm "" that the burned body found in Big Bear cabin is that of Christopher Dorner , they "" believe the investigation is over at this point , "" says Sheriff John McMahon. McMahon also yesterday asserted that police did not intentionally burn down the cabin ; rather , the "" pyrotechnic-type "" tear gas rounds ( known as "" burners "" ) intended to flush him out likely started the blaze , reports USA Today. In other Dorner developments : story continues below Jim and Karen Reynolds insist that it wasn ' t two maids who alerted the police to Dorner ' s location ; it was them , and they have the harrowing tale to prove it. The couple tell the Los Angeles Times that they went to their condo on Tuesday to clean and found Dorner , with a "" big gun "" inside. Karen tried to run but he grabbed them , took them to a bedroom , secured their arms and legs with zip ties , stuffed towels in their mouths , and covered their heads with pillowcases. He repeatedly said he did not intend to hurt the couple before he drove off in their purple Nissan. But as the AP reports , a series of gaffes did Dorner in. Notable among them : Karen Reynolds was able to access her cellphone on a nearby table and dial 911 just two minutes after they heard Dorner leave. More mishaps : After his first two killings , Dorner apparently tried to steal a boat in San Diego and flee to Mexico , but the Navy veteran tangled a rope in the outboard motor and couldn ' t start it. Then he fled to the Big Bear Lake resort area , where his truck axle broke , stranding him just ahead of a heavy snowstorm. ( Read more Christopher Dorner stories. )"
204,"A mother and infant were killed Friday when a tree fell on their home in Wilmington , North Carolina , making them two of the first fatalities connected to Hurricane Florence , Fox News reports. In a tweet announcing the deaths , police also said that the father was taken to a hospital with injuries. In Pender County , a woman died of a heart attack , WRAL reports. The woman called 911 , but responders were unable to reach her because of downed trees strewn across the road , per WWAY. According to the National Hurricane Center in Miami , more than 16 inches of rain have fallen in southeast North Carolina and another 20 to 25 inches are expected , the AP reports. ( The storm is barely moving , which is bad news. )"
205,"Ferry , upside-down. Engine room , flooding. Air pocket , shrinking. But engineer Augustine Charahani found the peace of mind to curl up on a flight of stairs and wait over 40 hours in the hope rescuers would find him , the New York Times reports. His ordeal began Sept. 20 in Lake Victoria , Tanzania , where the overcrowded ferry capsized about 160 feet from its destination , Ukara Island. Seems a sudden turn by the pilot or a rush of passengers when disembarking caused the boat to flip. About 40 managed to swim ashore and 228 drowned , per Tanzania ' s Daily News , which left Charahani alone with the floor above his head and ceiling underwater. "" Their screams were so loud , "" he recalls of the disaster. "" I think they struggled and drowned almost immediately. "" Then came the silence and the dark. story continues below He screamed for help , rapped his keys on the wall  thought he heard a knock in return once , but no one came  and dared fall asleep with his head nestled on a life jacket. "" Anytime I slept , there was a good chance of me sliding and falling back into the water , "" he remembers. Charahani says he saw Jesus while asleep and his four children while awake : Who will take care of them ? Why had he taken such a dangerous job ? Will death take me ? Feeling faint and hungry , with the room about two-thirds flooded and air dissipating , Charahani felt a diver grab his ankle. Soon a diving team was ushering him out of the boat and into an ambulance , which took him to an Ukara Island clinic where relatives desperately awaited news about their loved ones. Charahani ' s conclusion : "" This is my second chance to live. "" ( Read more boat accident stories. )"
206,"It ' s easy to look around the West and see startling signs of the region ' s drought. Trickier , but perhaps just as startling , is to hear signs of that same drought. Researcher Bernie Krause has made it possible thanks to decades of recordings at California ' s Sugarloaf Ridge State Park , reports Outside Online. He goes there every spring to the same spot with equipment he ' s used as a leader in the field of "" soundscape ecology , "" or "" ecoacoustics , "" which the Boston Globe describes as a blend of art and science. Over the years , a creek that runs through the park has dried up , and the sounds of wildlife  or "" biophony ""  have dried up along with it. By Krause ' s measurements , the biophony is down fivefold since 2004. He is now working with a researcher at the University of Urbino in Italy to translate his recordings into hard data for scientists. story continues below It  s a true narrative , a story telling us that something is desperately wrong ,  Krause tells Outside. Krause himself says he didn ' t realize the extent of the decline until playing recordings from previous years side by side with more modern ones. At the San Francisco Chronicle , Mark Morford finds Krause ' s work "" chilling , "" summing up thusly : "" What once was a rich , varied symphony of sound has become a far more subdued chamber orchestra , with large spaces of eerie silence where there was once a vast natural racket , signifying everything. "" The 77-year-old Krause tells the Globe that he ' s not "" terribly optimistic "" about change , but I am hopeful that we  ll begin to hear the message these critters are putting out in time to do something about saving them.  ( Scientists now say California ' s snowpack is at a 500-year low. )"
207,"As California starts to pull out of the combo bomb cyclone/atmospheric river that slammed parts of the state over the weekend into Monday , residents on the opposite coast are now dealing with their own severe weather. The governors of both New York and New Jersey have declared states of emergency within their borders as the first nor ' easter of the season is expected to bring strong winds and dump significant rainfall in the tristate area , possibly leading to coastal and flash flooding , reports CNN. story continues below "" I am encouraging New Yorkers to prepare now for inclement weather expected over the coming days and urging commuters to take precaution , "" New York Gov. Kathy Hochul said in a Monday evening release , placing more than 20 counties under the state of emergency umbrella. New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy , meanwhile , warned his state to expect "" severe weather conditions "" that could stretch through the "" next several days. "" Rain could come down at more than an inch an hour during peak times , with up to 6 inches possible in some areas. Flash floods could result near waterways such as creeks and streams , as well as in cities and other areas where there ' s poor drainage  though officials are crossing their fingers it won ' t be as devastating as Hurricane Ida and another storm from earlier this year , when subway stations , basement apartments , and cars filled with water and dozens of people in the area died. The National Weather Service has issued flash-flood watches in several spots , and WABC reports that wind gusts could exceed 40mph. The Wall Street Journal reports that , as of 8am Tuesday , almost 1,500 customers of Con Edison , the main energy supplier for New York City and Westchester County , were already in the dark. The storm could last through Wednesday for some locations. ( Read more nor ' easter stories. )"
208,"NASA ' s latest out-of-this-world feat happened on planet Earth : Thanks to the space agency ' s technology , four men trapped for days after the Nepal earthquake were rescued. The village of Chautara received two prototype FINDER devices four days after the disaster struck , Gizmodo reports. The development of the handheld gadgets  whose name is an acronym for Finding Individuals for Disaster and Emergency Response  was actually spurred by technology intended for studying the possibility of alien life , the site notes. The devices fire out what Quartz describes as a "" continuous microwave signal , "" using radar to detect heartbeats or breathing , and can discern the presence of a human from the movement of an animal. story continues below They ' ve been shown to work through 30 feet of rubble or 20 feet of solid concrete , NASA reports. In this case , the four men in two separate buildings were found buried below up to 10 feet of debris. The rescue marked the first time FINDER has been used in a real-life situation , Gizmodo notes. "" FINDER exemplifies how technology designed for space exploration has profound impacts to life on Earth , "" says NASA ' s chief technologist , Dr. David Miller. Now the agency is looking to go commercial with the technology so more rescue teams can access it , notes Quartz , which flags other ways NASA has helped save lives : Its technology has bolstered everything from firefighting gear to land mine removal methods. ( Another incredible rescue story saw a 101-year-old saved in Nepal. )"
209,"It ' s August and many Americans are taking well-earned summer vacations. And then there ' s Congress. House lawmakers took off for their August recess yesterday after refusing to consider a five-year measure to aid America ' s stricken farmers , reports the New York Times. Instead , they passed a stopgap $ 383 million disaster aid bill to help some livestock producers hit hard by this summer ' s devastating drought , along with a modest group of farmers. A bipartisan five-year farm measure has already made it through the Senate , which refused to take up the House ' s measure. story continues below The House disaster package , which provides assistance to cattle and sheep farmers but not to pork or poultry operations , "" is a sad substitute for what is really needed  a long term farm policy , "" complained the ranking Democrat on the House Agriculture Committee. The committee ' s Republican chairman urged his colleagues to "" go home and discuss the drought in that 65 % of United States that is suffering "" before coming back with the momentum to pass a farm bill , Politico reports. ( Read more Congress stories. )"
210,"The typical California home ' s biggest area of water usage is beyond its four walls : its outdoor landscaping. So in the face of drought , tens of thousands of Los Angeles homeowners made a change last summer , reports the Times , swapping their grass for artificial turf , gravel , or drought-tolerant shrubs. And while water-conserving efforts have been indisputably successful  urban Californians cut their water consumption 21.5 % in June as compared to June 2013 , the Mercury News reports  a trio of landscaper designer wrote an op-ed in the Times last summer about an unwanted effect of "" gravelscaping "" : hotter days due to fewer plants and trees "" transpir[ ing ] moisture to cool the air. "" Now , researchers at the University of Southern California have run various land-cover scenarios to determine whether that ' s so. story continues below In a nutshell , LA ' s daytime temps would be up to 3.4 degrees warmer thanks to the dramatic reduction in irrigation if the city went entirely without lawns. But , as they report this week in Geophysical Research Letters , if those lawns were replaced with drought-tolerant vegetation ( as opposed to pavers and gravel ) , there would be a 5.4 degree dip in nighttime temps to more than make up for the daytime warming  a phenomenon they hadn ' t foreseen. "" In retrospect , it makes sense that reducing soil moisture would change the thermal properties of the soil and surface-atmosphere coupling in this way , "" researcher George Ban-Weiss says. And if drought-tolerant shrubs were substituted for lawns and trees , daytime temps would dip 0.4 degrees thanks to unhindered sea breezes , not that the researchers are endorsing a tree-less LA. ( Read more drought stories. )"
211,""" You must be blind "" isn ' t exactly an insult you ' d expect to hear Stevie Wonder tossing around , but that ' s exactly how the singer addressed climate change deniers at a benefit telethon for hurricane victims on Tuesday night. "" Anyone who believes that there ' s no such thing as global warming must be blind or unintelligent , "" said the singer , who has been without sight since shortly after birth , as he kicked off the hourlong "" Hand in Hand "" event designed to offer relief after hurricanes Harvey and Irma , HuffPost reports. "" Lord , please save us all , "" he added , before kicking off a rendition of "" Lean on Me , "" with the Houston Gospel Choir providing backing vocals. Beyonce , who ' s from Houston , also spoke up on the topic. story continues below "" The effects of climate change are playing out around the world every day , "" she said , per the Daily Beast , referencing the two hurricanes , last week ' s earthquake in Mexico , and recent monsoon rains in South Asia. "" We have to be prepared for what comes next. "" The Los Angeles Times and ABC News note the multi-network/multi-platform telethon got "" surprisingly political "" in other ways , too , including a racism reference by Beyonce and a mention by Drake that the news cycle has become "" extremely overwhelming. "" And getting political is "" precisely what a telethon in 2017 needs in order to be effective , "" the Daily Beast adds. The star-studded event , which Deadline notes filmed in New York , Nashville , San Antonio , and LA , also featured appearances by Oprah Winfrey and Dwayne "" the Rock "" Johnson , among others. It raised over $ 44 million , including a $ 5 million Apple donation. ( Read more Stevie Wonder stories. )"
212,"Some 15 cities along a 200-mile stretch of the Pacific Northwest were coated in a mysterious , chalky substance on Feb. 6 after "" milky rain "" fell from the sky. For months , the white substance has been considered a "" good old-fashioned weather mystery , "" per CNN. Now , it ' s a mystery no longer. Though some have suggested a Nevada dust storm or ash from wild fires or far off volcanoes was responsible , Washington State University scientists who analyzed samples of the rain along with meteorological data say the guilty party is a shallow saline lake 480 miles away in Oregon. Soil from Summer Lake was thrown into the air by a bad dust storm and carried north by strong winds. When the clouds opened up , the particles fell to the ground with rain over various parts of Oregon , Washington , and Idaho , the scientists explain in a press release. story continues below "" At first we suspected it was related to wind erosion of landscapes that had previously burned , but the wind trajectory analyses didn ' t add up , "" a researcher says. Wind patterns showed the substance couldn ' t have come from suspected volcanic eruptions in Russia and Mexico , either. "" Instead , the air flow was locally from the south , "" a meteorologist says. The scientists traced the milky matter to Summer Lake  known to dry up during droughts , Christian Science Monitor reports  where 60mph winds were recorded the night before the rain poured. "" That would have been powerful enough to lift a good-size dust plume , "" the meteorologist says. The Tri-City Herald reports samples included sodium , silicon , and trace amounts of aluminum , potassium , magnesium , calcium , iron , and manganese. "" The chemistry is consistent with a saline source from a dry lake bed , "" a hydrochemist adds. ( Find out how raindrops get their smell. )"
213,"As protesters hit the streets , presidential candidates in Haiti banded together yesterday to demand the election be canceled , citing foul play , the Christian Science Monitor reports. Twelve of the 19 candidates are accusing the outgoing president  s party of massive fraud.  Protesters  some peaceful , some throwing stones  marched after hundreds of voters said they were barred from voting at polling stations because their names weren  t on rolls. story continues below There are more than 5,000 people here ,  but electoral officials sent us less than 40 names ,  noted a polling supervisor at a camp for earthquake refugees. This is corruption ,  said one. Some displaced Haitians weren  t sure where to cast their ballots. At a press conference , the electoral commission asserted the process was working and uprisings were limited. Click here for more on Haiti ' s troubles. ( Read more Haiti stories. )"
214,"In a decision sure to rock the scientific community , an Italian judge has sentenced six scientists and one former government official to six years in prison for failing to predict a 2009 earthquake that killed 309 people , the BBC reports. The seven , all members of the government-appointed National Commission for the Forecast and Prevention of Major Risks , were found guilty of multiple manslaughter because , according to prosecutors , they gave residents false reassurance before the quake struck  even though tremors had already been felt. story continues below After the first tremor , one witness testified , his parents were afraid. "" On other occasions they would have fled but that night , with my father , they told themselves what the risk commission had said. And they stayed. "" His father was killed. But the conviction outraged many scientists , considering how difficult earthquakes are to predict. "" A guilty verdict could establish a dangerous precedent as far as scientific accountability is concerned , "" writes George Dvorsky on io9. The judge also ordered the defendants to pay damages and court costs ; a lawyer for one says they will appeal. ( Read more Italy stories. )"
215,"Apparently worried about being told to stay home to avoid spreading the new coronavirus , Australians have been buying toilet paper as fast as stores can stock it. So a fire on a semi-trailer rolling through Brisbane this week was especially concerning. But the load wasn ' t a total loss , Australia ' s ABC reports. "" Toilet paper is quite precious at the moment , "" a fire official said , "" so we ' ve been able to save half the load on this particular truck. "" The truck was on a bridge at the time ; the driver was unhurt. Officials suspect a mechanical problem sparked the blaze. story continues below "" Everyone has just gone a little bit crazy , "" said a shopper in Sydney buying 40 rolls of toilet paper , per News.com. "" One person begins to stock up and then everyone begins to do it. "" The shopper , who ' s from California , said she was taking half her bounty to friends who were having her over for dinner that night. Another shopper saw someone buying 80 rolls , along with 20 jars of pasta sauce. A newspaper with a history of stunts , the NT News , added an eight-page insert Thursday that can be cut up into toilet paper , per the Guardian , should it be needed. No one , including the shoppers , is sure why there ' s such a run on TP ; there ' s no reason to think the country will run out. "" I ' m buying it because everyone else is doing it , "" one woman said. It ' s only fitting , another shopper said : "" Ideas are infectious. "" ( Read more coronavirus stories. )"
216,"Russian officials still haven ' t named the submersible on which 14 senior officers died in a fire Monday , but more details are emerging. Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Thursday that the submersible was indeed nuclear-powered , as local media reported , but that the reactor had been isolated from the fire , which spread from the battery compartment , per the BBC. "" The crew took all the necessary measures to protect the [ nuclear power ] unit , and it is in full working condition. This gives us hope that in quite a short time the vessel can be put back into service , "" said Shoigu. story continues below The defense minister met with President Vladimir Putin on Thursday as hundreds of sailors gathered to mourn the deceased sailors on an island in the Gulf of Finland , per CBS News. All 14 of the deceased from a unit based in Peterhof have now been identified , per the BBC. They include seven first-rank captains , including two bestowed with the Hero of Russia , which is the country ' s highest honorary title. The defense ministry also confirmed several crew members survived the blaze. ( Read more Russia stories. )"
217,"Tuning into the White House July 4th concert on the Hallmark channel ? You ' re not likely to see many celebs , unless you like American Idol finalists  "" as in , not actual winners , "" the Washington Post explains. Idol alumni Jax and Jonny Brenns , country singer Sara Evans , and Russian-born classical pianist Lola Astanova are headlining the Independence Day event , per USA Today. Meanwhile , PBS ' s annual A Capitol Fourth will air from the South Lawn a mile and a half away with John Stamos hosting performers including the Beach Boys , Jimmy Buffett , Renee Fleming , and the Temptations. In other words , most big names ( Kim Kardashian aside ) are still shunning President Trump. "" Top musicians fear alienating the chunk of their fan base who find Trump toxic , "" says the Post. ( Read more Independence Day stories. )"
218,"Chile has been rocked by earthquakes lately , and now a fire raging in the colorful port city of Valparaiso has killed at least 16 people and destroyed 500 homes , President Michelle Bachelet said today. More than 10,000 people have been evacuated , including more than 200 female inmates at a prison. "" It ' s a tremendous tragedy , perhaps the worst fire "" in the city ' s history , said Bachelet , who warned that the toll of death and damage would rise. The fire began yesterday afternoon in a forested area above ramshackle housing on one of the city ' s many hilltops , and spread quickly as high winds rained hot ash over wooden houses and narrow streets in the city of 250,000. Electricity failed as the fire spread , and towering , sparking flames turned the night sky orange over the darkened remains of entire neighborhoods. story continues below Bachelet declared the entire city a catastrophe zone , putting Chile ' s military in charge of maintaining order. While 1,250 firefighters , police and forest rangers battled the blaze , 2,000 Chilean sailors in combat gear patrolled streets to maintain order and prevent looting. Shelters were overflowing , and hospitals treated hundreds of people for breathing problems provoked by the smoke. Valparaiso , which was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2003 , is known for colorful neighborhoods hugging hills so steep that people have to use staircases rather than streets. About 75 miles northwest of the capital , Santiago , it has a vibrant port and is home to Chile ' s national legislature. But many homes in poorer areas above the city center have been built without water supplies or access points that would enable firefighters to intervene , so much of today ' s fight is happening from the air. ( Read more Chile stories. )"
219,"Members of the Thai soccer team who were trapped in a flooded cave ran a marathon Sunday to celebrate their rescue one year ago. About 4,000 people participated in the run and bike event in the town of Mae Sai , per Sky News. The boys , who were 11 to 16 at the time , entered Tham Luang cave last June and became trapped by rising water. Divers reached them 10 days later and took them out safely. "" Not many children could have survived the way they did , so we have to respect them for that , "" British diver Vernon Unsworth , who was involved in the rescue , said Sunday. story continues below The event was a fundraiser to improve conditions at the cave , ABC reports , which now attracts tourists from all over the world. A year ago , the site had only dirt roads , but renovations include paved roads , facilities for the crowds , and shops. "" The economy around here keeps getting better , "" said a shop owner who sells rescue memorabilia. The attention seems unlikely to abate ; the rights to the boys ' story have been acquired by Netflix. "" What we should do right now , "" Unsworth said , "" is to just let them get on with their lives. "" ( Read more Thai cave rescue stories. )"
220,"Texas hasn ' t elected a Democrat to the US Senate in 30 years , the Austin American-Statesman reports. Beto O ' Rourke wants to end that drought  by taking down Sen. Ted Cruz. The US representative from El Paso officially entered the race against the former presidential candidate Friday. O ' Rourke isn ' t well known outside West Texas , but that ' s probably about to change. Politico describes him as a "" 44-year-old former hard rock musician and internet entrepreneur. "" O ' Rourke used to play guitar for a punk rock band that included a future member of Grammy-winning band The Mars Volta , the Dallas Morning News reports. O ' Rourke also wrote a book advocating for the legalization of marijuana and is described as "" free-spirited. "" story continues below Democrats pretty much need O ' Rourke to unseat Cruz to have any hope of taking control of the Senate in 2018. And that ' s a whole lot easier said than done. Texas ' other GOP senator , John Cornyn , says O ' Rourke is on a "" suicide mission. "" And Texas ' GOP spokesperson summed up his feelings in one word : "" Who ? "" But O ' Rourke isn ' t discouraged. "" I  m under no illusions this will be anything but hard , "" he tells the Morning News. "" Nothing I  ve ever done that  s amounted to anything has been easy. "" O ' Rourke plans to win by doing what he ' s already been doing : traveling around , especially to Republican strongholds , and listening to voters. He tells the American-Statesman he wants to "" learn from people ... everywhere because everyone deserves something better. "" ( Read more Beto O ' Rourke stories. )"
221,"A piece of the space shuttle Columbia has been discovered in an east Texas lake , report CNN and Space.com. The shuttle broke up when re-entering the atmosphere in 2003 , killing its seven-person crew. The newly-discovered part is a tank 4 feet in diameter that contributed power and water to the shuttle , says a NASA rep. The part was discovered after a drought lowered the lake  s water level , said authorities from the city of Nacogdoches , where other material from the ship has been found. ( Read more Columbia Space Shuttle stories. )"
222,"A Wisconsin jail commander and two other staffers face charges after prosecutors say they left an inmate to die. Terrill Thomas , 38 , died of dehydration in the solitary confinement unit of Milwaukee County Jail in April 2016 after a week without water. Though the move was against regulation at the jail where seven have died since , Lt. Kashka Meadors ordered correctional officer James Ramsey-Guy to shut off Thomas ' water after the inmate flooded another cell , a criminal complaint reads , per the New York Times. After Thomas ' death , commander Nancy Evans ordered a review of jail footage and learned the water was shut off and not turned back on , the complaint states , per the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. But after the footage was overwritten , Evans concealed the information from investigators and her superiors , according to the complaint. story continues below She ' s charged with felony misconduct in office and obstructing an officer and could face more than four years in jail , per the Times. Meadors , who says she believed Thomas ' water was back on the same day it was turned off , is charged with felony neglect of an inmate , as is Ramsey-Guy , who didn ' t document the shutoff and says he expected another officer to do so , according to the complaint. They each face up to 3.5 years in prison , reports WITI. Previously placed on administrative duty , all three were suspended with pay on Monday. Further disciplinary measures are expected this week. Though charges were previously recommended for four other jail staffers , a district attorney says they ' re unlikely to come as "" we ' re focusing on the individuals that we think are most responsible. "" An investigator working with a lawyer representing Thomas ' family says members are "" elated. "" ( Read more Wisconsin stories. )"
223,"Call it the mystery of the missing inch. India ' s surveyor general on Tuesday announced that the country would "" remeasure "" Mount Everest to determine whether the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that devastated Nepal in April 2015 really did shave a bit off the mountain ' s height. The AFP reports that satellite data indicated as much as an inch was lost from the 29,029-foot behemoth , but "" there ' s doubt in the scientific community that it did in fact shrink , "" explains Swarna Subba Rao. The BBC reports it ' ll be the second such measurement India has made : The current height was determined in a survey the country conducted 62 years ago. story continues below Rao says a team will depart for Nepal in two months , and he tells the Press Trust of India they will use two methods of measurement "" for better confirmation "" : GPS and a ground method , "" triangulation. "" A month will be spent observing , with the determination being made official about two weeks later. In other Everest news , one man ' s dream of being the first since 1987 to summit the peak in the winter without supplemental oxygen has seen it dashed. The Local reports Spaniard Carlos Rubio was airlifted off the mountain Friday after experiencing altitude sickness. Companion Alex Txikon has made it to camp 3 ; there is one more before the summit , where temperatures average -33 degrees Fahrenheit in winter. ( Everest experienced its second deadliest day ever because of the quake. )"
224,""" Rest in peace , Bryer. "" That was the message Alan Schmegelsky had Wednesday for his son  one of two suspects wanted for three murders in Canada. "" He ' s going to be dead today or tomorrow , "" the elder Schmegelsky told CTV News , predicting his son had a "" suicide mission "" and , once caught , would go out in a "" blaze of glory. "" Speaking directly to his 18-year-old , he added , "" I ' m so sorry all this had to happen. I ' m so sorry that I couldn ' t rescue you. "" Schmegelsky says he split with his wife when Bryer was five and that his son struggled to cope ; he turned to YouTube and video games in his teens. Still , the father says he was shocked to learn his son hadn ' t traveled to look for work in Alberta as expected. Bryer had bought a pricey suit. But "" now I realize it ' s his funeral suit , "" he says. story continues below A Canada-wide arrest warrant has been issued for Bryer Schmegelsky and 19-year-old Kam McLeod , both of Vancouver Island. They ' re suspected in the murders of American Chynna Deese , Australian Lucas Fowler , and Canadian Leonard Dyck. Deese and Fowler were shot to death on the side of the Alaska Highway in northern British Columbia , while Dyck was found dead near a burned-out camper van used by the suspects. A burned-out Toyota Rav 4 also driven by the pair was found Monday near Gillam , Manitoba , a few days after the suspects were reportedly spotted in Saskatchewan. Having set up a checkpoint on the only road leading in or out of Gillam , the Royal Canadian Mounted Police note the pair may be "" using a different vehicle , on foot or even traveling separately , "" per CNN. ( Read more Canada stories. )"
225,""" I ' m so glad Twitter exists so I could confirm that we just had an earthquake and it wasn ' t me just losing my mind here in suburban Atlanta , "" reads a sample Wednesday tweet , one of many that helped make #earthquake a trending topic. Residents of Tennessee and Georgia took to social media to express their shock shortly after 4 : 14am EST when the US Geological Survey recorded a 4.4-magnitude earthquake originating near Decatur , Tenn. , followed by a 3.3-magnitude aftershock 13 minutes later , per USA Today. story continues below Shallow at 5.5 miles below the surface , the quake was the strongest to hit eastern Tennessee in 45 years , per the New York Times. ( A 4.7-magnitude earthquake struck the region in 1973. ) Weak to moderate shaking was not only felt 150 miles away in Atlanta , Ga. , but also in Kentucky , North Carolina , South Carolina , and Alabama , according to USGS. There have been no reports of injuries or serious damage , including at one of the nation ' s largest nuclear power stations. Watts Bar Nuclear Plant , two miles east of the quake epicenter , is "" designed to withstand seismic events , "" says the Tennessee Valley Authority. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
226,"Since 1841 , many have wondered what might have created "" Mima mounds , "" the mysterious ( and quite numerous ) large , ancient bumps emerging from the ground in Washington state ' s Mima Prairie. Earthquakes ? Floods ? Glaciers ? Aliens ? Nope. Most likely , it was ... gophers. Researchers think they ' ve finally figured it out , LiveScience reports : Pocket gophers burrow into the earth , and over the years , they push small amounts of dirt , rocks , or dead vegetation above them in an effort to keep dry until  many , many generations later  you have an 8-foot-tall , 30-foot-wide mound. story continues below Researchers ran a computer model and used "" digital gophers "" that behaved exactly as real pocket gophers do , the lead researcher tells the BBC. ( Other types of gophers push material downward , not upward. ) The model showed that after 500 to 700 years , the gophers ' normal burrowing would result in the huge mounds  which are , the lead researcher says , "" the largest structures built by any mammal not including humans "" when scaled by body size. "" In terms of effort , it would be like a single person building the pyramids. "" A Mima mound expert says that while the study isn ' t absolute proof pocket gophers are responsible , it certainly shows that the animals are capable of the feat. Mima mounds aren ' t specific to Washington ; in fact , they ' re found on every continent but Antarctica. The same can ' t be said for gophers , but researchers speculate the mounds could have been formed by other burrowing mammals , the Sky Valley Chronicle notes. ( Another mystery is closer to being solved : What happened to the missing colonists of Roanoke Island. )"
227,"When the US Forest Service battled wildfires near Yosemite National Park in August , it did so with a fleet of restored tankers first built in the 1950s. The planes help firefighters on the ground by dropping thousands of gallons of retardant ahead of blazes , but critics say the tankers are too old and are increasingly dangerous : 22 people have died in tanker crashes since 2001 , including six last year , reports the LA Times. Eleven studies since 1995 have called for the service to replace its tankers. "" It ' s pathetic , "" says a former Forest Service chief of aviation. "" We have brave aviators using ancient technologies and as a result they ' re losing their lives. It ' s a horrifying fact that won ' t change unless government action is taken. "" story continues below The planes aren ' t just difficult to fly  they ' re hard to fix. Engine parts are scarce ; they sometimes have to be taken from museums , and failing that , new ones have to be built based on 50-year-old blueprints. Most of the fleet is operated and maintained by contractors. One , in Montana , has eight Lockheed P-2Vs , which were first built in 1946 to hunt Soviet submarines. The service did recently contract seven new companies to fly "" next-generation "" planes , but the wording is questionable : one will be flying a plane that has been on display in an aviation museum for the past decade. ( Read more Forest Service stories. )"
228,"Through Nov. 12 , Facebook ' s Safety Check feature had been activated only in the event of four natural disasters , the first being April ' s Nepal earthquake. In the five days since , it has been twice deployed for "" human disasters. "" CNN Money reports that the feature was turned on Tuesday following a bomb blast in Yola , Nigeria , that , as of the AP ' s latest report , killed 34 people and injured 80. story continues below "" After the Paris attacks last week , we made the decision to use Safety Check for more tragic events like this going forward , "" Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg wrote in a post Tuesday. ( CNNMoney notes some 4 million people identified themselves as "" safe "" in Paris. ) As for what "" more "" means , "" we ' re now working quickly to develop criteria for the new policy and determine when and how this service can be most useful. "" ( Read more Facebook stories. )"
229,"With President Trump blaming forest management for California wildfires , many wonder about the role of climate change  and scientists say it is a factor , National Geographic reports. While wildfires are normal in California , the state ' s fires have generally gotten larger since 2000 as hotter and drier years go on record. That means warmed air is drawing water from soils and plants , making shrubs , trees , and grasslands more likely to burn. The summer dry season is also getting longer , letting plants get drier. "" We ' ve been lengthening fire season by shortening the precipitation season , and we ' re warming throughout , "" says UCLA climate scientist Daniel Swain. "" That ' s essentially what  s enabled these recent fires to be so destructive , at times of the year when you wouldn ' t really expect them. "" For more , including Fox News ' take : Wet and dry : Climate change also brings high variations of rain and snowfall , making some years wet and others dry , per VOA News. That means more fire-starting growth some years , and drier growth other years  perfect for a wildfire. story continues below Dying trees : Five Thirty-Eight adds another factor : tree die-off. Droughts and spreading bark-beetle populations are mentioned as culprits. Dead trees make good kindling. : Five Thirty-Eight adds another factor : tree die-off. Droughts and spreading bark-beetle populations are mentioned as culprits. Dead trees make good kindling. Too many people : Another culprit is California ' s population growth around wilderness areas. Some say people should stop building homes in likely fire areas , and homes there should be toughened , but that ' s hard in a state with beautiful woodsy landscapes and a housing shortage , per Bloomberg. : Another culprit is California ' s population growth around wilderness areas. Some say people should stop building homes in likely fire areas , and homes there should be toughened , but that ' s hard in a state with beautiful woodsy landscapes and a housing shortage , per Bloomberg. Prescribed fires : While Trump blames "" gross mismanagement of the forests , "" the Guardian notes that much of California ' s wildfire area is not forest. The Woolsey fire in Malibu is actually burning shrubs and grass. Up north , there is timber , grass , and brush. The "" most effective tool "" for managing wildfires is prescribed fires that "" reduce the buildup of vegetation , "" says the paper. : While Trump blames "" gross mismanagement of the forests , "" the Guardian notes that much of California ' s wildfire area is not forest. The Woolsey fire in Malibu is actually burning shrubs and grass. Up north , there is timber , grass , and brush. The "" most effective tool "" for managing wildfires is prescribed fires that "" reduce the buildup of vegetation , "" says the paper. Cutting power : California is trying other fire-prevention efforts amid the "" harsh reality "" of climate change , per Time. That included shuttering  and turning off power  in businesses and schools for some 60,000 people in mid-October during high winds , to keep dead trees from hitting power lines and sparking fires. : California is trying other fire-prevention efforts amid the "" harsh reality "" of climate change , per Time. That included shuttering  and turning off power  in businesses and schools for some 60,000 people in mid-October during high winds , to keep dead trees from hitting power lines and sparking fires. Volatile mix : Fox News sums up the climate issue this way : "" ... Whipping winds , high temperatures and drought that are characteristic of climate change stoke wildfires like those raging in Northern and Southern California. "" Meanwhile , 83 % of a famous California landscape was gutted by wildfire . ( Read more climate change stories. )"
230,"The toll of death and destruction from a massive typhoon that tore through central and northern Japan continued to climb Tuesday , as the government said it was considering approving a special budget for the ongoing disaster response and eventual reconstruction. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told a parliamentary session that the number of deaths tied to Typhoon Hagibis had climbed to 53 and was expected to rise , as at least another nine people are presumed dead , the AP reports. Lawmakers prayed in silence for the victims before starting the session. Abe pledged to do the utmost for the safety and rescue of those missing or those who had to evacuate. story continues below Hagibis hit Japan ' s main island on Saturday , unleashing strong winds and dumping historic rainfall that caused more than 200 rivers in central and northern Japan to overflow , leaving thousands of homes flooded , damaged , or without power. Rescue crews on Tuesday were still searching for those missing , thought to number about 20. Some 34,000 homes remained without power and 110,000 others were without running water. West Japan Railway Co. said its Hokuriku Shinkansen bullet train services connecting Tokyo and Kanazawa in the central north were reduced because of flooding of six trains at its railyard in Nagano. The trains sat in a pool of muddy water that was up to their windows. ( A woman in her 70s fell to her death while being transported in a rescue helicopter. )"
231,"People in New York and nearby states will be able to head to the shore , legally , for the holiday weekend later this month. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Friday that New Jersey , Connecticut , and Delaware , along with his own state , plan to open state beaches for the Memorial Day weekend. This year , the actual holiday is Monday , May 25. Beachgoers will have to wear masks if social distancing isn ' t possible , and crowds will be limited to 50 % of capacity , reports the Hill. No volleyball or football games will be allowed on the beaches , per CBS News , and picnic areas , arcades , concessions , and other places people could congregate will stay closed. All of this applies to state beaches , while cities and other municipalities will make their own decisions for beaches they control. story continues below Saying "" we are one multistate region , "" Cuomo said the decision had to be made jointly. "" If Connecticut opened beaches and we didn  t open beaches , you would see a flood of people going to Connecticut , "" he said. New York City beaches will not reopen for the time being , reports New York Post. "" We  re just not ready , "" Mayor Bill de Blasio said Friday. New Jersey ' s famed Jersey Shore will open on Friday of the holiday weekend. "" The Shore is central to our Jersey identity , "" Gov. Phil Murphy said , per WNBC , in announcing his state ' s rules. Rest rooms , shower pavilions , and changing areas will be cleaned regularly. Boardwalk restaurants are limited to selling takeout. "" We want everybody to have fun , but we want everybody to be safe , "" Murphy said. At the moment , Weather.com predicts rain Friday but a dry holiday weekend at the Shore. ( Read more coronavirus stories. )"
232,"If you were idly sitting around on your Sunday morning wondering what else 2020 could throw our way , well , you ' re reading your answer and it is "" firenado. "" "" A pyrocumulonimbus from the Loyalton Fire is capable of producing a fire induced tornado and outflow winds in excess of 60 mph , "" the National Weather Service warned on Saturday , per KOLO. "" It ... is nearly stationary. This is extremely dangerous for firefighters. "" The Loyalton Fire , which broke out Friday , is just 5 % contained and has spread to 2,300 acres. Some 300 firefighters are battling the blaze , reports KPIX5. California is also baking in a heat wave. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
233,"Deshaun Watson took the snap , rolled right , and with one of the easiest throws he had to make all night , completed Clemson ' s journey to the top of college football. A frantic fourth quarter and a championship rematch between Clemson and Alabama was decided with one second left on a 2-yard touchdown toss to Hunter Renfrow. "" I couldn ' t hear the crowd , "" Watson said , per the AP. "" I just felt at peace. "" Watson and the Tigers dethroned the defending champs and became the first team to beat Nick Saban ' s Alabama dynasty in a national title game , taking down the top-ranked Crimson Tide 35-31 Monday night in the College Football Playoff. A 35-year title drought for Clemson is over ; the Tigers are national champions for the first time since 1981. story continues below A year after Alabama won its fourth title under Saban with a classic 45-40 win in Arizona , Clemson ( 14-1 ) denied the Tide ( 14-1 ) an unprecedented fifth championship in eight seasons in what Clemson coach Dabo Swinney said "" has to be one of the greatest games of all time. "" The lead changed hands three times in the fourth quarter , with the Tigers leading 28-24 with 4 : 38 left. The Tide responded with a 30-yard touchdown pass to make it 31-28 with 2 : 07 left. But Watson got the ball last. "" I just smiled right when they scored , "" Watson said , per the Tampa Bay Times. "" I just told my guys , hey , let ' s be legendary , let ' s go be great. "" Playing in his final college game , the junior quarterback threw for 420 yards and three touchdowns , battling through four sacks. "" Eight years ago we set out to put Clemson back on top , "" Swinney said. "" We came up a little short last year , but today on top of the mountain , the Clemson flag is flying. "" ( Read more college football stories. )"
234,"After being hit with a devastating earthquake and then a tropical storm , Haiti clearly did not need this latest problem : Gangs kidnapping doctors. One physician rushing to deliver a baby via emergency C-section was kidnapped in the capital of Haiti Tuesday , and the woman and her baby died. Another doctor , an orthopedic surgeon treating earthquake victims , was kidnapped a day later. On Thursday , a network of eight private hospitals declared a two-day shutdown , except for emergency patients , to protest the unchecked gang activity. Kidnapping is one thing. But the fact that the mother and child died is unacceptable ,  Ronald Laroche , founder of the Port-au-Prince hospitals , told the Miami Herald. Kidnappers have contacted both families , but there were no details on ransom demands. story continues below Ariel Henry , Haiti  s prime minister , said that though the rival gangs apparently responsible for the kidnappings were supposed to have a truce to help earthquake relief get through , police presence was going to be ramped up to protect doctors and aid workers. Police are focusing on the Martissant region , which has a reputation for being rough , per the AP. But the woman and child died in Petionville , a quieter , wealthier part of Port-au-Prince. Aid distribution has been slow  and tense. Police fired warning shots over young men packed into a crowd against the fence around a small airport in Les Cayes , Al Jazeera reports. Residents of villages along routes to harder hit areas are building barricades to stop aid packages from passing them by , too. ( Read more Haiti earthquake stories. )"
235,"If you live in California , now may be the time to stop using drinking water in non-recirculating ornamental fountains. That ' s one of the practices  along with things like allowing runoff from your sprinklers , hosing down your driveway or sidewalk , or washing your car without a nozzle on the hose  that will be banned in the state come Aug. 1 , and violators could be fined up to $ 500 per day. The State Water Resources Control Board yesterday gave local agencies the authority to impose such fines , and the directive to put such bans in place , as part of new emergency rules as the state deals with one of its worst droughts in decades. story continues below While many cities in Southern California already have mandatory water restrictions , most California communities have only voluntary restrictions in place , and the state is not close to the 20 % reduction in water use Gov. Jerry Brown called for in January , the Los Angeles Times reports. First-time offenders probably won ' t get hit with a $ 500 fine ; authorities are expected to give warnings first , and then escalating fines if offenses are repeated , the AP reports. Which they may well be : One expert told the board that SoCal residents "" don ' t get this drought "" ; May ' s urban water use was actually up 1 % compared to the average of the three Mays prior. ( Read more California stories. )"
236,"The Argentine climber stranded on Canada ' s highest peak has been rescued after four days. Natalia Martinez was stuck at about 12,800 feet on Yukon ' s Mount Logan after two earthquakes  of magnitudes 6.3 and 6.4 , reports the Guardian  left the ground unstable. She was rescued via helicopter Thursday night during a break in the bad weather that had kept rescue teams from reaching her earlier , the CBC reports. Her partner , Camilo Rada , says the 37-year-old ' s health is good , but a pilot with the company that originally flew her to base camp says her experience was an intense one. "" The earthquake , for want of a better term , really shook her up and ... she actually had to go through quite a strong storm , "" he says. story continues below Rada , however , notes Martinez ' s extensive experience with Patagonia ' s "" serious weather "" left her knowing exactly how to manage the situation , though "" it ' s very tiring. "" Upon getting off the mountain  she wasn ' t expecting to be rescued for another day , though the Canadian Press reports her food supply was still good  Martinez enjoyed a warm meal , a hot shower , and the ability to sleep in Friday morning. Solo ascents , as Martinez ' s was supposed to be , are rare on the mountain , which sees about 25 climbers try to conquer it each year. ( The number of people who may attempt to climb Everest this year is much higher , and that could be a problem. )"
237,"Flooding in the 2030s might make us look back fondly on this decade. NASA sea level researchers say high tide flooding could seriously worsen next decade along US coastlines , NPR reports. That ' s the sort of flooding in which water invades streets and yards in coastal areas. "" Nuisance floods , "" as they ' re sometimes called , take place when tides hit about 2 feet above the daily average high tide , per Live Science. If they don ' t last long , damage is minimal. But a peer-reviewed study published in Nature Climate Change finds the flooding could occur more often and be more serious , possibly for the entire 2030s. Rising sea levels caused by climate change is a big reason. "" They ' re getting awfully close to the brim in coastal communities due to decades of sea level rise , "" said an oceanographer who co-wrote the study , per the New York Times. story continues below The spark could come from the moon. It operates on an 18.6-year cycle , creating lower high tides and higher low tides half the time and higher high tides and even lower low tides the other half. The moon will be due to "" wobble , "" and its influence on tides will be more dramatic than in the past because sea levels are so high , the study says. The effect will vary along different coastlines. In addition , researchers wrote that floods could start occurring in clusters lasting a month or so , depending on the position of the moon , sun , and Earth. The wobble itself doesn ' t have a huge effect usually , moving high tide at a beach by an inch or two over the cycle. But the factors add up , and researchers say we shouldn ' t be caught by surprise. "" It just kind of raises the baseline , "" said the study ' s lead author. "" And the more your baseline is raised , the smaller weather event you need to cause a flooding event. "" ( Read more flooding stories. )"
238,"Fortunately , a face-off between a rancher ' s supporters  some armed  and federal officials concluded peacefully in Nevada on Saturday. Had it not , a former Arizona sheriff had a plan : "" We were actually strategizing to put all the women up at the front "" near the feds , Richard Mack told Fox News , via the Blaze. "" If they are going to start shooting , it  s going to be women that are going to be televised all across the world getting shot by these rogue federal officers. "" Meanwhile , those involved in the showdown  which , the Blaze notes , became a question of states ' rights  are reflecting on the event. story continues below Rancher Cliven Bundy ' s son tells Reuters that his supporters needed their weapons "" in order to intimidate "" federal officials. "" We were dedicated to opening those gates and peacefully walking through to retrieve those cattle "" seized by the government ( and ultimately returned ) . Despite the confrontation ' s end , however , the conflict isn ' t finished , says Harry Reid. "" We can  t have an American people that violate the law and just walk away from it , "" he said on Nevada ' s KRNV , via the Washington Times. "" So it  s not over. "" Many protesters were still at Bundy ' s ranch as of yesterday , the Times notes. ( Read more Nevada stories. )"
239,"NASA ' s Jet Propulsion Laboratory is out with a study predicting that Los Angeles has a 99.9 % chance of experiencing an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.0 or greater within the next two and a half years. "" There  s enough energy stored to produce about a magnitude 6.1 to 6.3 earthquake "" with an epicenter in La Habra , which was hit by a quake in 2014 , says a JPL geophysicist , per CBS LA. Earthquake scientists used information from the La Habra quake to make their predictions , and found that there ' s a 35 % chance of an earthquake with a magnitude of 6.0 or greater , the Los Angeles Daily News reports. But other experts aren ' t convinced ; KPCC goes so far as to call the JPL study "" controversial. "" story continues below As the US Geological Survey notes , "" the accepted random chance of a ( magnitude 5.0 ) or greater in this area in three years is 85 % , independent of the analysis in this paper. "" Plus , JPL ' s research "" has not yet been examined by the long-established committees that evaluate earthquake forecasts and predictions made by scientists , "" the USGS says , per LA Weekly. "" The lack of details on the method of analysis makes a critical assessment of this approach very difficult. "" And , as one Caltech seismologist who read the study notes , "" As far as I  m concerned there has never been a successful earthquake prediction , and a scientific breakthrough would be required for us to make a scientifically based prediction. "" But , he adds , since earthquakes tend to cluster , it ' s not much of a stretch to assume there will be another one in La Habra. ( Only a single survivor remains from another California earthquake. )"
240,"This winter ' s flooding in Northern California has done more than bring relief after years of drought ; it ' s created the prospect of the best gold prospecting in 20 years. Gold hunters in the area tell the Chico Enterprise-Record the floods have "" rearranged the rivers "" and "" move things around. "" That means gold veins that have been hidden for 200 years are suddenly exposed. According to CBS San Francisco , the floods also swept gold out of abandoned mines and washed it downriver. While KCRA reports that gold can simply be picked off the ground following major flooding , the best prospecting will come in the summer months when the water has receded. story continues below Right now , rivers are still high and government workers are trying to keep would-be prospectors away while they get things under control. But in the summer  which experts say could be the busiest since the one that followed major flooding in 1997  stream beds will be exposed for better gold hunting. "" I ' m going to have a ball , "" one prospector tells the Chico newspaper. The epicenter for the new gold rush could be the Oroville Dam , which nearly catastrophically flooded this winter and required the use of an emergency spillway for the first time. ( This treasure hunter is seeking $ 1 billion in gold from a sunken ship. )"
241,"First to take the stage Sunday night at LA ' s Staples Center for the 59th Annual Grammy Awards before the show heads to New York for 2018 : a sparkly , well-received Adele singing her nominated "" Hello. "" Her performance was followed by dapper late-night host and Carpool Karaoke crooner James Corden , who made a comical pratfall entrance , jokingly proclaiming , "" This is a disaster ! "" before breaking into a one-shoed rap to introduce the show. Then the kickoff of the awards , with Jennifer Lopez presenting the first honor of the night for Best New Artist , awarded to Chance the Rapper. Lopez offered a statement about the current political climate , quoting Toni Morrison and noting , "" This is precisely the time when artists get to work. "" The rest of the awards : story continues below Daft Punk helped out with the night ' s first song by The Weeknd , performing the electronica-infused , laser-lit "" I Feel It Coming. "" A blinged-out John Travolta revealed he couldn ' t read the teleprompter from where he was standing , whipping out his personal cue cards instead to introduce a spunky Keith Urban and Carrie Underwood dueting on "" The Fighter. "" Nick Jonas handed out the Best Pop Duo/Group Performance to Twenty One Pilots  who took off their pants before taking to the stage to fulfill a promise made long ago  for their hit "" Stressed Out. "" to Twenty One Pilots  who took off their pants before taking to the stage to fulfill a promise made long ago  for their hit "" Stressed Out. "" Which , of course , led to Corden stripping to his skivvies from the bottom down before introducing Ed Sheeran , who performed a sexy , stripped-down "" Shape of You. "" Best Rock Song went next to the late David Bowie for "" Blackstar. "" went next to the late David Bowie for "" Blackstar. "" Ryan Seacrest introduced nominees Lukas Graham and Kelsea Ballerini performing a seamless mashup of their songs "" 7 Years "" and "" Peter Pan , "" respectively. Tina Knowles , Beyonce ' s mom , welcomed her daughter to the stage with "" a mother ' s pride , "" where the gold-adorned star  who recently announced she ' s pregnant with twins with husband Jay Z  flaunted her baby-bearing belly as she offered quietly powerful renditions of "" Love Drought "" and "" Sandcastles "" from Lemonade. Her husband and daughter , Blue Ivy , beamed from the audience. Maren Morris took home the gilded gramophone for Best Country Solo Performance for "" My Church. "" for "" My Church. "" Corden couldn ' t resist slipping in some of his Carpool Karaoke schtick , pulling J. Lo , Faith Hill , Tim McGraw , John Legend , Keith Urban , and Neil Diamond , among others , into a fake car to sing Diamond ' s "" Sweet Caroline. "" Even Blue Ivy snuck into the car at the end. Lucky for you , "" That ' s What I Like "" by Bruno Mars was the next live performance of the night , in which he made crotch-shaking as silky-smooth as the sheets in his lyrics. Country group Little Big Town admitted to a crush on Katy Perry , singing a snippet of "" Teenage Dream "" before letting Perry ( sporting rose-colored glasses ) belt out her new "" Chained to the Rhythm "" featuring Skip Marley. Singer William Bell and guitarist Gary Clark Jr. offered up a little soul to lead into the award for Best Urban Contemporary Album , bestowed upon Beyonce for Lemonade. The breathless singer noted she wanted her kids to see their own images mirrored back to them not only from their own family members , but "" in the news , the Super Bowl , the Olympics , the White House , and the "" Grammys "" and to "" have no doubt that they ' re beautiful , intelligent , and capable. "" She added , "" This is something I want for every child of every race. "" , bestowed upon Beyonce for Lemonade. The breathless singer noted she wanted her kids to see their own images mirrored back to them not only from their own family members , but "" in the news , the Super Bowl , the Olympics , the White House , and the "" Grammys "" and to "" have no doubt that they ' re beautiful , intelligent , and capable. "" She added , "" This is something I want for every child of every race. "" Alicia Keys , who ' s got 15 Grammy Awards under her own belt , joined newly anointed winner Maren Morris ( earlier for Best Urban Contemporary Album ) to perform Morris ' "" Once. "" ) to perform Morris ' "" Once. "" Adele turned out an emotional tribute cover of the late George Michael ' s "" Fastlove , "" complete with a do-over after what appeared to be technical difficulties. Best Rap Album went to Chance the Rapper for Coloring Book , his second major award of the evening. "" I didn ' t think we were gonna get this one , "" he said , once more thanking God for his success. went to Chance the Rapper for Coloring Book , his second major award of the evening. "" I didn ' t think we were gonna get this one , "" he said , once more thanking God for his success. Lady Gaga and Metallica pretended they were still in a garage band for their fire-and-smoke-filled performance of the latter ' s "" Moth Into Flame. "" Frontman James Hetfield ' s mic wasn ' t working , but that didn ' t stop them from ( metaphorically ) burning the place down  with Gaga even leaping at one point into the "" mosh pit "" for some crowd surfing. Dwight Yoakam introduced new Grammy winner Sturgill Simpson ( Best Country Album for A Sailor ' s Guide to Earth ) to sing his hit "" All Around You. "" for A Sailor ' s Guide to Earth ) to sing his hit "" All Around You. "" Demi Lovato kicked off a Grammy salute to the Bee Gees to mark the 40th anniversary of the release of Saturday Night Fever. She was joined onstage by Tori Kelly , Little Big Town , and Andra Day to perform a medley of the group ' s most popular tunes , with the only remaining Gibb brother , Barry , watching in the audience. Celine Dion presented the Song of the Year award to Adele for "" Hello. "" The singer apologized again for her earlier profanity during the George Michael tribute. award to Adele for "" Hello. "" The singer apologized again for her earlier profanity during the George Michael tribute. A Tribe Called Quest gave a shout-out to member Phife Dawg , aka "" The Five-Foot Assassin , "" who died last March , before kicking off into "" Award Tour "" and "" Movin ' Backwards. "" Busta Rhymes joined the hip-hop group onstage for the most political song of the night , "" We the People. "" The Time and Bruno Mars powered through a high-energy set to honor the late Prince. Tamela Mann and Kirk Franklin joined Grammy winner Chance the Rapper for a spirited "" How Great. "" John Legend and Cynthia Erivo sang the Beach Boys ' "" God Only Knows "" to intro the "" In Memoriam "" section , which honored ( in addition to George Michael , Prince , and Phife Dawg ) : Leonard Cohen , Keith Emerson and Greg Palmer from ELP , Merle Haggard , Sharon Jones , and Debbie Reynolds , among others. Record of the Year went to "" Hello "" by Adele , who told Beyonce she wanted her to "" be my mommy. "" Adele also took home Album of the Year for 25 , after which she once more honored fellow nominee Beyonce for Bey ' s Lemonade album , which Adele called "" monumental "" and "" soul-baring. "" See a complete list of the night ' s winners here . ( Read more Grammy Awards stories. )"
242,"Like earthquakes can unleash tsunamis , strong winds and the California wildfires apparently set loose another type of natural disaster : fire tornadoes. And the San Francisco Chronicle says the fire-filled tornadoes that hit Santa Rosa last week , driven by nearly 80mph winds , wreaked major havoc , tossing cars , pulling trees out of the ground , and ripping the roofs off of houses. "" I ' ve been in this business 30 years and it ' s the worst I ' ve seen , "" Scott Upton , a chief for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection , says of the tornadoes created during the Tubbs Fire. The Chronicle explains the science behind the tornado formation : As powerful winds drive the fire ' s flames into neighborhoods , the heat rises and draws those gusts up with it , creating the tornado , or "" fire whirl , "" a vortex of hot and cool air capable of mass destruction. story continues below This type of event , also referred to as a "" fire devil , "" can be so strong it ' s capable of lifting an entire home in the air ; the paper notes one such incident that took place in 1926. The location of the neighborhoods affected by the Tubbs Fire also exacerbated things : The wind sped up as it pushed the fire through a valley and toward residences , creating what Ken Pimlott , the head of CalFire , calls "" a very different kind of fire. "" It was "" almost horizontal , "" he says. "" When it hit those homes , it was like a blowtorch. "" The Press Democrat details the Tubbs Fire ' s 12-mile "" deadly march "" from its point of origin in Calistoga to Santa Rosa. Curious to know what one of these frightening flame-storms looks like without getting too close ? Mashable features a video , in which firefighters filmed a recent fire tornado raging through central Portugal. Newsweek has footage , too , out of California and Texas. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
243,"Reporters toured the Fukushima nuclear plant yesterday , looking out a bus window at debris that still littered the site some 8 months after a tsunami and earthquake devastated Japan , the Guardian reports. One reporter described "" twisted metal , crumpled trucks , large water tanks that have been dented and bent , "" and called the mess "" a testament to how difficult a time they ' ve had in trying to get those reactors under control. "" story continues below With radiation levels still dangerously high , reporters donned full protective suits and weren ' t allowed into the reactors , where employees are now able to work under dangerous conditions. ( The New York Times details the radiation testing they regularly undergo. ) On the tour , an environment official portrayed the visit as a step forward for Fukushima : "" At least we can say we have overcome the worst , "" he said. The plant will undergo a "" cold shutdown "" by the end of the year and be fully decommissioned within 30 years , if all goes as planned. ( Read about an official who dared to drink Fukushima ' s decontaminated water. )"
244,"With coronavirus cases mounting daily  along with the number of cities where transport has been locked down  China plans to build a new hospital in just six days. Work began Thursday night on a 1,000-bed facility in Wuhan , the epicenter of the outbreak , reports the Guardian. China shut down public transport in Wuhan Thursday morning and also shut down travel out of the city of 11 million people. Beijing and other major cities have banned large gatherings over the upcoming Chinese New Year period , during which hundreds of millions of people travel around the country , reports the Washington Post. Authorities say cases of the new virus have now been reported in almost every Chinese province , with at least 26 deaths. story continues below Some 13 cities  Wuhan and 12 of its neighbors in Hubei province  have now been locked down , with more than 33 million people affected , the AP reports. Hospitals in Wuhan and other cities , which have been struggling to deal with a flood of patients , have issued calls for the public to donate protective equipment including masks and goggles. Residents say they have been turned away from hospitals  and many stores have been cleared of food. Chinese authorities have not said how long the lockdowns are likely to last. Vietnam and Singapore confirmed cases of the virus Thursday , bringing the number of countries affected to seven , including the US. The World Health Organization said Thursday that the number of overseas cases are too low to declare a global health emergency , but the outbreak "" may yet become one. "" ( Read more coronavirus stories. )"
245,"Californians could face more rolling power blackouts after a major source of electricity had to shut down. Water levels at Lake Oroville fell to close to the minimum to keep the Hyatt Power Plant operating , CNBC reports , reaching the lowest point since the plant opened in 1967. The plant , which is 75 miles north of Sacramento , can ' t produce power once the water drops to 640 feet above sea level , officials have warned. On Thursday , the level was 641 feet , per the Los Angeles Times. "" There ' s low and then there  s low. And now it  s gone , "" said a former Los Angeles water official. "" It ' s a big deal. "" With the tallest dam in the nation on the lake , a large system sends water coming from the mountains to the rest of the state. But now , little water is reaching the lake. story continues below Officials blame the drought , worsened by the effects of climate change. "" This is just one of many unprecedented impacts we are experiencing in California as a result of our climate-induced drought , "" the state ' s top water official said. Expecting the level to fall to as low as 620 feet above sea level in October , officials are trying to store as much water as possible. Replacing the power lost from the lake plant isn ' t feasible , they said : The new source probably would cost more , be less efficient , and result in higher emissions. The lake was nearly full at one point in 2017 , but the storms that brought that rain also damaged the spillways used to manage the water levels. Gov. Gavin Newsom asked Californians last month to cut their water use by 15 % . ( Read more California drought stories. )"
246,"At least nine people are dead but officials say that number may eventually reach 40 after what could be the deadliest structure fire in Oakland history , the East Bay Times reports. According to KTVU , the massive blaze broke out at a two-story warehouse late Friday night during a dance party. The warehouse is home to artists and their studios and hosts parties to raise rent money despite not being permitted as a residential or event space , the Los Angeles Times reports. There were up to 100 people inside when the fire started. The AP reports video from the scene showed flames coming through the roof , which eventually collapsed. Most of the dead were found on the warehouse ' s second floor. It doesn ' t appear any smoke detectors went off , and the warehouse didn ' t have a sprinkler system. story continues below It took four hours and 55 firefighters to get the blaze under control , and a large portion of the building has yet to be searched. Debris and the caved-in roof are slowing the search , which could take two days to complete. Fire chief Teresa Deloach-Reed described the warehouse ' s interior as "" a maze almost. "" Friends and family are taking to social media to see if their loved ones made it out ; some still haven ' t heard from people they know were there. Bob Mule , a photographer who lives in the warehouse , says he tried to get an injured friend out but the flames were too intense. I literally felt my skin peeling and my lungs being suffocated by smoke , "" he tells the East Bay Times. "" I couldn  t get the fire extinguisher to work.  No cause for the deadly fire has been given , but arson isn ' t suspected. ( Read more fire stories. )"
247,"Roman emperors not only had war , jealousy , and political infighting to worry about  there was also the rain. A new study linking climate data to Roman history finds that lower average rainfall boosted the odds of an emperor being murdered during the empire ' s roughly 500-year run , from 27 BCE to 476 CE , the Smithsonian reports. The reasoning : Low rainfall in what is now France and Germany ( then the Roman frontier , where many troops were stationed ) would cause low harvests and starve soldiers , who became more likely to mutiny. "" That mutiny , in turn , would collapse support for the emperor and make him more prone to assassination , "" study co-author Cornelius Christian , an assistant economics professor in Canada , tells Live Science. story continues below Relying on a 2011 study of oak-tree rings , researchers found that a 20 % drop in annual rainfall created a 0.11 standard deviation increase in the chance a Roman emperor being murdered the following year , the Economist reports. Those most in danger lived during the Gordian dynasty from 235 CE to 285 CE , when 14 emperors were killed. "" We ' re not trying to claim that rainfall is the only explanation for all these things , "" says Christian. "" But usually there is a drought preceding the assassination of the emperor. "" Their study is part of a growing field linking historical events to climate data , like a Nature study last year about how volcanic activity may have created drier conditions and crippled Egypt ' s Ptolemaic dynasty. ( In other assassination news , Robert F. Kennedy Jr said Sirhan Sirhan didn ' t kill his father. )"
248,"On the off chance you ' re given to believing every sky-is-falling theory you run across on Facebook , the one about a planetary alignment triggering a massive earthquake this week is absolute nonsense. Gizmodo traces the latest to a video from a guy named Frank in the Netherlands  under the name of Ditrianum Media  who claims a 9.8 magnitude earthquake will occur on North America  s West Coast tomorrow because he received an important message  to that effect directly from Spirit  in August 2013. The man says recent earthquakes in Tonga and the Soloman Islands are proof of an imminent Big One  that will be caused by the alignment of the sun , Mercury , and Saturn between Earth and the moon. For one thing , earthquakes happen all the time , Gizmodo notes. But more importantly , it  s impossible for a planetary alignment to cause an earthquake. story continues below The idea is that the combined gravity of the planets could influence earthquakes , but even under ideal conditions , the planets would have less gravitational pull on the Earth than the moon , which at very best has an extremely weak influence on earthquakes ,  writes Phil Plait at Slate. And even the alignment is bogus. The software used to display the alignment in the video was adjusted to show exaggerated planet sizes. When the same software is switched to a realistic  view , the alignment disappears , at least as far as its relation to Earth and the moon , reports Weather Network. What of claims an asteroid will smash into Earth on Sept. 24 ? A single asteroid is known to be flying by Earth on that date ; it will be 5 million miles away. ( CNN has a clip to air at the world ' s end. )"
249,"As recently as Wednesday evening , Roy Moore was refusing to concede the Alabama Senate election to Doug Jones , who bested Moore by 21,000 votes Tuesday to become the first Democrat to win a Senate race in Alabama in 25 years. "" The battle rages on , "" Moore said in a video released late Wednesday , reports ABC News. He noted some military and provisional ballots are still being counted and suggested he ' ll concede only with "" certification by the secretary of state. "" Yet the Republican might also be looking beyond the election , to the future. Noting it ' s unlikely Moore will leave politics , the AP reports he could make his third bid for governor in 2018  or perhaps revive his campaign against Jones in an effort to nab his Senate seat in 2020. story continues below Either option could prove difficult for Moore , who faces sexual misconduct allegations from eight women and "" has now lost more statewide races than he ' s won in Alabama , "" per the AP. Republican strategist John Stipanovich has referred to Moore as "" a terrible candidate , "" per the Hill , and Jonathan Bernstein at the Denver Post notes that "" Republicans aren  t going to put up a bad candidate every time , "" especially with such a slim majority in the Senate. "" You need good candidates to win in Senate races , "" Republican Sen. Ron Johnson said in response to Moore ' s loss Tuesday. "" Alabamians didn ' t want somebody who dated 14-year-old girls. "" The AP notes Moore might also return to the Foundation for Moral Law , a group he founded with the aim "" to restore the knowledge of God in law and government. "" ( Read more Roy Moore stories. )"
250,"Scientists are scratching their heads over a crack in the Earth that ' s more than half a mile long , Sky News reports. A drone captured video footage of the 16-foot-wide , 26-foot-deep crack , which appeared last week in remote farmland and cuts across Highway 26 between the coast and Hermosillo in northwest Mexico. Some officials speculated a San Andreas Fault earthquake may have caused it  there was an earthquake along the fault on Sunday , First News notes  but experts at the University of Sonora are eying an underground stream as the possible culprit , Australia ' s News Network reports. story continues below Experts say a farmer-built levee started leaking , creating an underground stream that weakened the earth above it and caused it to crumble. A Mexican geologist says that rainwater could also be to blame , saturating the ground and causing "" ditch flows , "" but that there is no cause for alarm , according to the International Business Times. The unstable ground is , however , forcing cars to drive around the area , and a second crack has reportedly opened up nearby. ( Another geological marvel : water "" missing for decades "" is found 400 miles below the US. )"
251,""" It ' s time to draw a CLEAR line in the sand , "" New York State assemblywoman Aravella Simotas tweeted Saturday , announcing she would redirect $ 5,350 in campaign contributions from police-affiliated groups to a New York City bail fund , as well as to groups working to "" help New Yorkers in communities of color survive police encounters. "" It started a movement , with at least six New York Democrats following suit , reports NBC News. "" I ' m tired of hearing that issues of police abuse are the result of a few bad apples when we see more and more apples rotting every single day , "" state Sen. Michael Gianaris told NBC on Sunday. He said he would donate some $ 10,000 he ' d received from police groups following aggressive police actions at New York City protests over the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. story continues below Similar pledges came from assemblywomen Catalina Cruz , Carmen De La Rosa , Nathalia Fernandez , and NYC Council members Francisco Moya and Mark Levine. "" We need to show solidarity to the movement , "" said Fernandez. "" If we don ' t do something here , I don ' t know how we can continue to move on as a society , "" said Moya. A spreadsheet had spread online showing contributions to NY Democratic leaders from law enforcement PACs. "" Taking police money implies that you ' re actively OK with cops murdering black men , "" the creator , 19-year-old Aaron Fernando , tells NBC. Protests across the country have sparked a flood of donations to bail funds , with the Minnesota Freedom Fund receiving $ 20 million in four days , reports the New York Times. Donations to Democratic candidates also hit record numbers for 2020 on Sunday and Monday. ( Read more New York stories. )"
252,"The woman who was arrested after walking out of a Northern California wildfire near the fire line has now been charged with arson. Authorities say Alexandra Souverneva , 30 , was trying to hike to Canada when , she told them , she found a puddle of water to drink but wanted to sterilize it because it had bear urine in it. When straining it through a tea bag didn ' t work , she allegedly told authorities , she tried to make a fire so she could boil it , CNN reports. She claimed conditions were too wet to spark a fire and that she drank the water anyway. The Fawn Fire , which started Sept. 22 , has burned through more than 8,500 acres and is only 50 % contained. story continues below Souverneva , of Palo Alto , is also a suspect in a second Shasta County fire , which started the day prior about five miles away , the Mercury News reports. "" It is my opinion there is a high possibility she is responsible for the vegetation fire in Shasta Lake City the previous evening , "" the Cal Fire official who arrested Souverneva says in a report to the DA. The DA says possible links to other fires are also being investigated. Souverneva , who pleaded not guilty , reportedly graduated from the prestigious California Institute of Technology , and has worked as a scientist studying medicinal chemistry at the State University of New York and as a research associate at biotech companies Gilead Sciences and Nanosyn. But her current occupation is listed on LinkedIn as "" shaman , "" CBS Sacramento reports. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
253,"With the most powerful Atlantic hurricane ever recorded battering the Caribbean , Business Insider reports that at least one billionaire is staying put. As Irma was closing in on Tuesday , Virgin Group CEO Richard Branson declared he would hunker down on his private island , the Telegraph reports. "" I will be on Necker alongside our team , as I have been on the three times we have had hurricanes over the past 30 years , "" Branson writes on his blog. The thrill-seeking exec notes , per the Mirror , that while past hurricanes have skirted the British Virgin Islands , "" this one is coming straight for us , with the eye of the storm heading straight for Necker. "" But other "" lovely guests "" staying on the island west of Puerto Rico weren ' t so bold , he says , bailing before the Category 5 storm hit. story continues below Another group postponed their visit to the Balinese-style resort , where several houses sleeping up to 34 people rent for $ 80,000 a night , per the Telegraph. Necker ' s "" really strong "" buildings with hurricane blinds "" should be able to handle extreme weather pretty well , "" Branson writes , while urging less well-off islanders to prepare ahead of 185mph winds and not shrug off emergency shelters. Noting the devastating toll wrought by Harvey , Branson calls climate change "" a key factor in the increasing intensity "" of the latest storms. "" If Irma is any indication , we must brace ourselves for more of these catastrophic weather events. "" He adds , "" How much cheaper and smarter to support the Paris Agreement and move to clean energy ? "" ( Irma is so strong that earthquake detectors are going off. )"
254,"Unless Netflix has recently discovered a passion for pot , the @Qwikster Twitter account doesn  t belong to the company , and that ' s an unfortunate ( and hilarious ) oversight. Writing for TechCrunch , Alexis Tsotsis calls it an "" immediate chink in the company  s rebranded armor , other than the fact that , like a multitude of other failed companies , the name ends in ' ster ' ... "" @Qwikster , an account illustrated by an image of Elmo with a joint , largely explores two topics : boredom and marijuana use. Bored as shyt wanna blaze but at the same time I don ' t ,  one tweet muses. Another reflects on romance : Damn so manny cute ass gurl.  story continues below Tsotsis rounds up some clever Twitter reactions. Our fave , from @redgirlsays : "" @Qwikster is out of every DVD except Half Baked and all the Cheech and Chong films. "" Click for more. ( Read more Netflix stories. )"
255,"At least 25 people have now been confirmed dead in a horrific fire on a diving boat off southern California early Monday. Coast Guard Lt. Cmdr. Matthew Kroll says the search will continue overnight for nine people still missing in one of the worst maritime disasters in the state ' s history , the AP reports. Kroll says five bodies that have been located have not been recovered because of unsafe conditions under the Conception , which sank in around 60 feet of water as fire crews were fighting the blaze. Authorities say the fire broke out around 3am while the boat was anchored off Santa Cruz Island. Five out of six crew members escaped and sought help from a nearby fishing boat , but the 33 passengers were below deck , with only one narrow staircase out. "" You couldn ' t ask for a worse situation , "" Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown told reporters Monday. story continues below Coast Guard Capt. Monica Rochester said late Monday that the search for survivors would continue overnight , reports Reuters. "" It  s a very tragic event and we will search all the way through the night , into the morning , "" she said. "" But I think we should all be prepared to move into the worst outcome. "" Sen. Dianne Feinstein called for a full investigation , saying it was "" inconceivable "" that a fire on a boat could be so deadly "" with all the safety regulations we have in place today , "" the Orange County Register reports. "" We must know what fire-suppression systems and other emergency equipment are in place on these boats and whether they were in working order on the Conception , "" she said. "" And we need to understand exactly how the crew was trained and , if they were awake and above-deck , why they were unable to alert or help rescue passengers. "" ( "" I can ' t breathe , "" one passenger said in a mayday call received from the ship. )"
256,"A deadly year for California ' s Kern River got even deadlier over the weekend when authorities pulled two more bodies from the water. The Los Angeles Times reports that eight people have died along the river nicknamed the "" Killer Kern "" since March , though one of those fatalities was a heart attack. At least two others remain missing. One of those pulled from the river Saturday has been identified as Michael Ramirez , a 27-year-old Orange County rapper who disappeared while swimming on June 22. Also Saturday , a 22-year-old Los Angeles man drowned after being warned about the dangers. Bureau of Land Management and Forest Service officials say they warned him and his cousins about jumping from rocks into the river that morning , Bakersfield.com reports. story continues below The warning apparently went unheeded , however , and he was dragged into the main current and underneath the surface. His body was found by a nearby campground. Authorities say the rise in drownings on the 165-mile river is likely due to visitors being unused to such high waters and fast currents , the Times reports. Last winter was one of the wettest on record and followed five years of drought. Snow melting on the Sierra Nevada has caused the Kern to swell with cold , fast-moving water. In 2011 , the last big-water year in California , three people drowned in the Kern on the Fourth of July , and authorities are warning people to keep away this year. ( Read more Kern river stories. )"
257,"Decades before it was felled by the larger Inca civilization around 1475 AD , the Chimu people in what is now northern Peru gathered more than 140 children on a bluff overlooking the Pacific Ocean and slaughtered them all. Archaeologists who ' ve uncovered the remains of boys , girls , and 200 young llamas killed with cuts across the sternum say it ' s evidence of the largest known mass child sacrifice anywhere in the world. It dwarfs the ritual killings of 42 children previously uncovered in the Aztec capital of Tenochtitln , now Mexico City , reports National Geographic. It wouldn ' t have been pretty : Archaeologists say both animal and human victims , aged 5 to 14 , had their chests cut open , possibly as a means of getting at the heart. As for the why , El Nino factors into a leading theory. story continues below Archaeologists say a layer of mud at the site of Huanchaquito-Las Llamas , less than a mile from the Chimu capital of Chan Chan , suggests the area was experiencing torrential rains related to El Nino at the time of the sacrifice between 1400 and 1450. Since elevated sea temperatures and coastal flooding linked to El Nino could ' ve affected both fishing and agriculture , archaeologists suspect the Chimu got desperate. "" They may have seen that [ adult sacrifice ] was ineffective "" and "" people sacrifice that which is of most and greatest value to them , "" anthropologist Haagen Klaus , who was not involved in the excavation , tells NatGeo. The skulls  marked with a red ceremonial pigment , per the Washington Post  indicate victims came from across Chimu ' s territory , reports Newsweek. ( This teen might ' ve been sacrificed to Zeus. )"
258,"Sexism and racism are bad , but there ' s another "" ism "" that David Brooks is concerned about , and one for which there doesn ' t seem to be much legal recourse : "" lookism , "" the term Brooks uses in his newest op-ed for the New York Times to describe "" prejudice against the unattractive. "" In short , Brooks poses this question in the headline : "" Why is it OK to be mean to the ugly ? "" He notes that "" lookism starts , like every form of bigotry , with prejudice and stereotypes , "" and he offers plenty of evidence to back up his assertion that "" the attractive get ... first-class treatment "" while the unattractive often get the shaft. Brooks cites research suggesting that attractive people are more likely to get jobs and promotions than unattractive people , make more money , and even get hit with smaller fines after committing low-level crimes. story continues below Yet we as a society largely ignore this "" pervasive "" problem , mainly because "" it ' s very hard to buck the core values of your culture , even when you know it ' s the right thing to do , "" Brooks writes. He adds that those values our "" pagan culture "" has pushed include an obsession with beauty , athleticism , and intelligence , leaving unattractive people out in the cold. So where ' s a good place to start to remedy this ? "" Shift the norms and practices "" in our society , per Brooks. He points out that Victoria ' s Secret , of all companies , is blazing a path in this regard , recently replacing its "" Angels "" with seven women who boast more diverse body types , including soccer star Megan Rapinoe. Still , Brooks notes , "" when Victoria ' s Secret is on the cutting edge of the fight against lookism , the rest of us have some catching up to do. "" ( Read his piece in its entirety here. )"
259,"Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison was enjoying the Hawaiian sunshine while two volunteer firefighters died battling bushfires at home Thursday , prompting what Reuters calls a "" rare "" apology. "" I deeply regret any offense caused to any of the many Australians affected by the terrible bushfires by my taking leave with family , "" Morrison said in a Friday statement , adding that he ' d return home immediately. In a radio interview , he said the trip was a surprise for his daughters after he had to cancel a January leave. "" I don ' t hold a hose , mate  but I know that Australians would want me back , "" he said , per CNN. A day earlier , hundreds of protesters gathered at his home in Sydney. One in a Hawaiian shirt carried a sign reading , "" ScoMo , where the bloody hell are you ? "" story continues below Anger has been mounting over the government ' s climate change policies amid devastating bushfires that have wiped out more than 800 homes on the country ' s east coast. Geoffrey Keaton , 32 , and Andrew O ' Dwyer , 36  reportedly killed in a vehicle rollover  were the seventh and eighth firefighters to die in New South Wales since the start of October. Ten other firefighters suffered injuries Thursday as NSW declared a state of emergency. "" The worst imaginable set of circumstances unfolded , "" says NSW Rural Fire Service Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons. Conditions were expected to improve Friday but then reach a "" catastrophic "" level on Saturday. Another NSW official says "" it would be a miracle if we don ' t [ lose more homes ] . "" ( Read more Australia stories. )"
260,"The San Andreas fault is famous , but the lesser-known fault that caused Friday night ' s 5.1 earthquake could be the one that delivers the "" Big One "" that devastates Los Angeles , experts warn. The Puente Hills fault runs under downtown Los Angeles into Hollywood , near many older buildings , and the US Geological Survey estimates that a 7.5 quake along the fault could kill up to 18,000 people and cause up to $ 250 billion in damage , the AP finds. An even stronger quake along the San Andreas would be less damaging , experts say. story continues below A major quake along the fault "" would be very damaging to central Los Angeles , "" the director of the Southern California Earthquake Center tells CBS. "" An earthquake engineer once told me this could be the earthquake from Hell. "" He warns that quakes like Friday ' s don ' t relieve the pressure along faults , but are "" actually associated with bigger earthquakes. "" In the area hardest-hit by Friday ' s quake and more than 100 aftershocks , no serious injuries have been reported but officials have yet to release damage estimates , the Los Angeles Times reports. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
261,"Venice is no stranger to flooding  the Italian city is made up of 118 islands in a lagoon  but what it is experiencing this week is extraordinary. Mayor Luigi Brugnaro plans to declare a state of emergency amid major flooding caused by the second-highest tide on record , the Guardian reports. The high-water mark hit 74 inches Tuesday night , exceeded only by the 76-inch level reached by flooding in 1966. The flooding caused at least two deaths , including that of a man apparently electrocuted by a pump. St. Mark ' s Basilica was flooded for the sixth time in 1,200 years , the BBC reports. Brugnaro warned that the flooding will leave a "" permanent mark "" on Venice. "" Now the government must listen , "" he added. "" These are the effects of climate change ... the costs will be high. "" ( Read more Venice stories. )"
262,"President Trump ' s planned rally in Tulsa got the go-ahead Friday from the Oklahoma Supreme Court , which rejected a lawsuit that could have canceled the event. The city then called off a three-day curfew , causing confusion among police , after Trump tweeted that he ' d spoken to Tulsa ' s mayor. Trump had issued a warning to potential protesters earlier in the day ; thousands of supporters and opponents of the president are flooding into the city before the event Saturday , the Washington Post reports. Mayor G.T. Bynum had declared a civil emergency and had the area around the arena cleared Thursday night , saying law enforcement officials expected violence. Trump posted that the curfew had been repealed after he spoke with Bynum. "" Thank you to Mayor Bynum ! "" he wrote. story continues below Tulsa residents and businesses had filed suit to postpone the indoor rally unless the arena agrees to impose enforce social distancing guideline , per the New York Times. The group ' s lawyer told the court that allowing the event to proceed at a time when coronavirus cases are climbing in Tulsa would be "" madness. "" But the court ruled that under Oklahoma ' s reopening guidelines , social distancing is at the discretion of business owners. Face masks are not required at the rally , though the campaign said it will check the temperature of those entering the arena. "" The city is under siege , "" a photojournalist near the arena said. Convenience stores already are boarded up , he said , and National Guard troops had arrived. The rally is scheduled for 8pm EDT , per CBS. ( Read more Tulsa stories. )"
263,""" F --- it , I quit : "" When reporter Charlo Greene dropped an on-air F-bomb and publicly told her employer to shove it so she could go do something she ' d rather be doing , well , we ' ve all been Charlo Greene. But particularly Emily Gould , who really did quit in a blaze of glory. Only , she writes at the Guardian , while it felt righteous and satisfying to call out her employer , Gawker , on her way out the door , the reality wasn ' t so glorious. "" I wanted to make a big ideological point , and I had but one weapon in my arsenal : a pulpit that I could use to denounce the very thing that had given me a voice. "" Unfortunately , in quitting , "" I lost that weapon as soon as I used it. "" story continues below And while Gould survived , "" it took years before I worked another full-time job. "" And she ' s pretty sure she knows why : "" It was that no one was quite prepared to trust me. "" But the reason that we adore people who say "" f --- it "" is because they echo "" the tiny part of all of us that wishes we could ... be so honest and so irresponsible. But refusing to give in to those impulses is what keeps society functioning , and what makes us  as individuals  adults. "" Sure , "" f --- it "" feels great to say , "" but it ' s fleeting. "" Click for Gould ' s full column. ( Read more Charlo Greene stories. )"
264,"When an earthquake struck Italy in 1570 , Pope Pius V blamed the destruction on God ' s supposed wrath against the Jews. Less predictably , the quake also shifted the course of Italy ' s longest river by 25 miles. The magnitude-5.8 quake struck near the northern city of Ferrara in 1570 , killing dozens and causing thousands more to abandon their homes , American Geophysical Union reports. Now , researchers analyzing extensive historical records and using new modeling techniques say the temblor was the final step in the centuries-long shift of the Po River. "" The 1570 earthquake marked the definitive diversion of the final part of the Po River away from Ferrara , "" they write in the Journal of Geophysical Research : Solid Earth. story continues below Over the past 2,800 years the Po has moved north by about 12 miles between the towns of Ficarlo and Guastella , likely due to small shifts caused by temblors culminating in the 1570 earthquake , Live Science reports. That one caused the Po Valley to rise by 4 to 6 inches on the river ' s right side , creating a major shift in the river ' s flow and moving its delta north to its present location. Neat factoid : The 1570 quake was so destructive that it led Italian architect Pirro Ligorio to design the world ' s first earthquake-resistant buildings. As for the Jewish angle , Pope Pius V maintained that God was punishing Ferrara ' s duke for allowing Jews and Marranos to take refuge there from Spain. ( See how 5,000 earthquakes hit Nevada in one year. )"
265,"The booms of fireworks were missing from various towns in drought-wracked states over the Fourth of July , but that doesn ' t mean there wasn ' t celebration in the skies. To avoid the risk of wildfires , towns in California , Colorado , and Arizona turned to drones for entertainment. In Carefree , Ariz. , the Civana Resort called its free drone display the "" next generation firework show , "" per Business Insider. "" Now we have technology that allows us to do precision animation and storytelling  we can write words and draw objects in the sky , "" the head of Intel ' s drone group adds , per USA Today. You ' re not too late to catch a show : After a Wednesday wind delay , 500 drones will arrange themselves into a giant American flag , plus other icons , at California ' s Travis Air Force Base on Thursday. ( Read more Fourth of July stories. )"
266,"A state of emergency has been declared in San Diego County after nine wildfires scorched at least 14 square miles , with more dry winds and soaring temperatures due today. Gov. Jerry Brown issued the emergency order after the series of fires broke out yesterday , forcing thousands to flee their homes , the San Diego Union-Tribune reports. Schools and amusement parks including Legoland were forced to close as fires raged around the coastal city of Carlsbad , destroying a condo complex and damaging multiple homes , reports the AP. story continues below Military housing near Camp Pendleton was also evacuated. "" It  s like a scene from Armageddon , "" one homeowner in the area told the Los Angeles Times as smoke blotted out the sun. Drought conditions have created a very high fire risk throughout much of California , and Carlsbad ' s fire chief says this is the first time in his 27-year career he has seen blazes like this so early in the year. "" This is May , this is unbelievable. This is something we should see in October , "" he says. "" I haven ' t seen it this hot , this dry , this long in May. "" ( Read more San Diego stories. )"
267,"A fire that erupted Wednesday in California ' s Shasta County has quickly spread to cover 5,500 acres , forcing thousands of people out of their homes. It ' s also prompted an arrest. Cal Fire and Shasta County Fire said employees spotted a white woman trespassing on property accessed through two quarries in the unincorporated Mountain Gate area north of Redding before the fire was spotted "" in a deep and remote canyon "" within that area , per KCRA. The employees said the woman was "" acting irrationally , "" according to the statement. story continues below Firefighters were battling the flames around 8pm Wednesday when a woman identified as 30-year-old Alexandra Souverneva of Palo Alto "" walked out of the brush near the fire line and approached firefighters stating she was dehydrated and needed medical treatment , "" the statement adds. During an interview , "" information was gathered leading officers to believe Souverneva is responsible for causing the fire. "" The agencies did not say how the blaze began , but note the Shasta County District Attorney ' s Office is recommending the charge of "" arson to wildland. "" Some 4,000 residents were evacuated Thursday as the so-called Fawn Fire spread from 1,200 acres in the morning to 5,500 acres by evening , when it was just 5 % contained , per KCRA. Officials blamed high winds and said at least 25 structures were destroyed , per CBS Sacramento. Gizmodo shares scenes that look "" like something out of an apocalyptic horror movie. "" Shasta College canceled all in-person classes for Friday as the fire neared its Redding campus , per KHSL. Some 9,000 firefighters are currently battling 10 large wildfires across the state. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
268,"With wildfires , floods and other weather-related disasters steadily worsening , President Biden doubled the budget for communities trying to mitigate the destruction through preparation. The added $ 500 million will make for a total of $ 1 billion in a Federal Emergency Management Agency program that distributes money to do things like move homes at risk of flooding and build seawalls , the New York Times reports. The president made the announcement at FEMA ' s offices , where he received a briefing on the coming hurricane season , per CNBC. "" Now is the time to get ready for the busiest time of the year for disasters in America  hurricane season in the South and East , and the fire season out West , "" Biden said afterward. story continues below Last year , the White House reported , 22 weather and climate-related disasters caused more than $ 1 billion each in damage. Total damage approached $ 100 billion. Biden also announced a NASA effort to gather better data to show how the climate is changing and what the effect is on communities. The government ' s formula would have allowed for putting $ 10 billion into the FEMA program. "" We can never be too prepared , "" Biden said. Craig Fugate , who ran the agency under President Obama , called $ 1 billion "" a huge number for predisaster mitigation "" and "" a good start. "" Daniel Kaniewski , a FEMA deputy under President Trump , said a broad effort will be required to minimize the toll. "" It will take investment from all levels of government , the private sector , and each of us individually to mitigate the risks , "" he said. ( Read more FEMA stories. )"
269,"The death toll from Hurricane Michael , one of the strongest storms ever to hit the mainland US , now stands at 11 , and authorities fear they will find more bodies as they search devastated communities in the Florida Panhandle and elsewhere. NBC News reports that 1.5 million people were without power Thursday night as Michael , now classified as a post-tropical cyclone , gained new strength after moving out over the Atlantic and brought yet more rain to North Carolina. The National Hurricane Center predicts that the storm will move rapidly away from the US over the weekend. More : "" Devastated Town , USA. "" Florida is still tallying the cost of the storm , but it is clear that recovery will take a long time , the Washington Post reports. Entire oceanfront communities on the Gulf Coast have been almost completely destroyed. Florida Department of Transportation worker Curtis Locus says he has never seen anything like it. "" This is Party Town , USA. Now it ' s Devastated Town , USA , "" he says. "" Everything along the coastline was devastated like a war zone. "" Florida is still tallying the cost of the storm , but it is clear that recovery will take a long time , the Washington Post reports. Entire oceanfront communities on the Gulf Coast have been almost completely destroyed. Florida Department of Transportation worker Curtis Locus says he has never seen anything like it. "" This is Party Town , USA. Now it ' s Devastated Town , USA , "" he says. "" Everything along the coastline was devastated like a war zone. "" "" I ' ve never been so scared in my life. "" Harrowing stories are emerging from communities including Mexico Beach , which took a direct hit from the storm , the AP reports. Dawn Vickers says the storm ripped her home from its foundations and split it in two. Vickers and her family spent the night sheltering in one waterlogged half. "" I ' ve never been so scared in my life , "" she says. "" We were all praying , ' Just please get us through this. ' I thought we were going to die. "" story continues below Psychiatric hospital cut off. CBS reports that Florida ' s largest psychiatric hospital has been entirely cut off by the storm. Officials say helicopters have been used to drop food and water to Florida State Hospital in Chattahoochee , which has around 1,000 residents and 300 staff. CBS reports that Florida ' s largest psychiatric hospital has been entirely cut off by the storm. Officials say helicopters have been used to drop food and water to Florida State Hospital in Chattahoochee , which has around 1,000 residents and 300 staff. "" Catastrophic damage "" at Air Force base . Tyndall Air Force Base , on the shoreline near Mexico Beach , was hit hard by the storm and suffered what the Air Force says was "" widespread catastrophic damage , "" the New York Times reports. Almost all personnel  and aircraft  had been evacuated and there were no injuries reported among the few airmen who stayed behind. . Tyndall Air Force Base , on the shoreline near Mexico Beach , was hit hard by the storm and suffered what the Air Force says was "" widespread catastrophic damage , "" the New York Times reports. Almost all personnel  and aircraft  had been evacuated and there were no injuries reported among the few airmen who stayed behind. "" Last night was just hell. "" Father Roy Radney tells the New York Times that his daughter , 11-year-old Sarah Radney , was killed when the storm blew part of a metal carport into the modular home where she had been staying with her grandparents in southwest Georgia. He says he struggled to hear updates on her condition as cellphone reception worsened. She died around an hour after the debris hit her. It took emergency workers around six hours to reach the home. "" Last night was just hell , "" he says. "" I ' m an hour and a quarter away , and my daughter ' s dying , and I can ' t do anything about it. I can ' t think of anything that is more related to hell than that. "" Father Roy Radney tells the New York Times that his daughter , 11-year-old Sarah Radney , was killed when the storm blew part of a metal carport into the modular home where she had been staying with her grandparents in southwest Georgia. He says he struggled to hear updates on her condition as cellphone reception worsened. She died around an hour after the debris hit her. It took emergency workers around six hours to reach the home. "" Last night was just hell , "" he says. "" I ' m an hour and a quarter away , and my daughter ' s dying , and I can ' t do anything about it. I can ' t think of anything that is more related to hell than that. "" More flash flooding. The storm has caused widespread flash flooding in North Carolina , which was still recovering from Hurricane Florence , the AP reports. Virginia also suffered flooding as the storm moved toward the ocean. The storm has caused widespread flash flooding in North Carolina , which was still recovering from Hurricane Florence , the AP reports. Virginia also suffered flooding as the storm moved toward the ocean. How to help. The Pensacola Journal has a list of ways people can help those affected by the hurricane. The Florida Disaster Fund has been activated and is among those taking donations. ( Read more Hurricane Michael stories. )"
270,"Scientists have long been baffled by a lack of Triassic period fossils from large , herbivorous dinosaurs known as sauropods near the equator. A new study offers some illumination : It suggests a hot , unpredictable climate and high carbon dioxide levels kept some of the world ' s first dinosaurs away  and may shed light on our own issues with climate change. Researchers first analyzed ancient sedimentary rocks in New Mexico , which would have been much closer to the equator as part of the supercontinent Pangea some 215 million years ago , reports LiveScience. In separating carbon isotopes from fossilized organic matter , they identified significant and rapid changes to the ecosystem and atmospheric CO2 levels  which were four to six times those of today. Pollen and spores suggested available plants varied in quantity based on the frequent changes , while fossil charcoal showed evidence of wildfires every few dozen years that wreaked havoc on vegetation. story continues below The combined factors suggest an environment too unstable for sauropods until about 30 million years later , though small , carnivorous dinosaurs did populate the area. "" The conditions would have been something similar to the arid Western United States today , although there would have been trees and smaller plants near streams and rivers and forests during humid times , "" study author Jessica Whiteside explains in a press release. Eerily , she writes at the Conversation that "" rapid climate swings and extremes of drought and intense heat driven by increasing atmospheric CO2 levels have as much ability to alter the vegetation supporting modern human populations as they did for the large plant-eating dinosaurs in the Triassic. "" Whiteside adds we can expect "" profound challenges to human sustainability in the future if we experience the high CO2 conditions predicted to develop in the coming 100 to 200 years. "" ( Scientists made an incredible discovery inside "" crap "" dino fossils. )"
271,"Snowmelt and rain are in abundance for the first time in years in Central Valley , Calif. , which boasts so much farmland it helps feed much of the world. But the state ' s five-year drought was so bad that all those farms sucked up enough groundwater to sink a solid three feet , thereby reducing the region ' s water storage capacity , reports a new study out of Stanford University. "" California is getting all of this rain , but in the Central Valley , there has been a loss of space to store it , "" says a researcher tells Courthouse News ; they used satellite technology to precisely calculate the changes in elevation. "" When too much water is taken out of clay , its structure is rearranged at the microscopic level and it settles into a new configuration that has less storage space. "" story continues below Unfortunately , she adds , that change is irreversible  and extracting groundwater in the future will be harder , "" like trying to suck water from a really thin straw. "" The record-setting drought made things dramatically worse fast , but it isn ' t entirely to blame ; farmers have been over-pumping groundwater for decades , reports the Central Valley Business Times. But as the researchers report in the journal Water Resources Research , there are solutions to the problem , including compelling farmers to draw water from the sandy or gravel layers of earth instead of clay , as they are less likely to permanently compact and replenish more easily through rainfall. Researchers are now trying to map Central Valley ' s sediment layers to better inform future solutions. ( There ' s more silver lining on the drought front. )"
272,"Future climbers won ' t notice , but Mount Everest is a tiny bit shorter because of the earthquake in Nepal. Radar images show that it shrank about an inch , reports the Weather Channel. The change may have been greater had the world ' s tallest peak been directly above the fault line , notes Phys.org , but as things stand , Everest is still at 29,029 feet. The situation is radically different near the capital of Kathmandu , which rose at least 3 feet. story continues below "" That ' s one of the reasons why Kathmandu has so much damage , "" a geophysicist from the UK ' s University of Leeds tells LiveScience. Measurements before and after the 7.8-magnitude quake show that an area 75 miles long and 30 miles wide rose 3 feet , and the rise peaked just 10 miles from the city. Scientists are poring over the radar images not only to get a better sense of the quake ' s "" anatomy , "" reports the BBC , but to better predict where the next big one may hit. ( Click to read about a teen ' s rescue after five days. )"
273,"Syrian government forces are bulldozing large swaths of homes in Hama in a sweep that ' s uprooting thousands of residents , according to new videos. "" So far they have razed 120 buildings , "" says one local. City blocks are being plowed over as officials go door-to-door asking residents to leave , CNN reports. "" Some are still sleeping in the streets , and only a few of them remain in their homes , "" says another resident. story continues below "" The government wants to deny the activists popular support through leveling Meshaa Alarbaeen , "" adds one of the witnesses. "" But this incident has only fueled more anger here. "" Meanwhile , clashes in Damascus are once again heating up , with gunfire audible in the streets , al-Jazeera reports. Some of the blasts are loud enough to suggest artillery fire. "" Every one of them feels like an earthquake , "" says a resident. ( Read more Syria stories. )"
274,"Firebombs exploded in two West Bank homes this morning , igniting a blaze that killed an 18-month-old Palestinian boy and severely wounded his 4-year-old brother and parents in what Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu quickly labeled "" an act of terrorism in every respect , "" reports NBC News. Jewish settlers are suspected , notes the AP ; the assailants scrawled graffiti messages including "" Long live the Messiah , "" ' ' revenge , "" and "" price tag. "" "" This is a suspected attack with nationalist motives , "" says a police rep , who notes the latter slogan has been used previously by Israeli extremists. story continues below The scene was horrific , with neighbors describing the dead boy ' s mother fleeing the home with her body on fire and attempts at rescue foiled by too-strong flames. All but 10 % of her body was reportedly burned. "" I never imagined that this could happen , that someone could come and burn people alive while they are sleeping , "" said the boy ' s uncle. "" I don ' t know what those people were thinking. What do they have inside their hearts and minds ? "" ( Read more West Bank stories. )"
275,"Just days before parts of Europe entered lockdown , Italian photojournalist Alessio Mamo traveled to Sudan , where he managed to set eyes on a sight that many of the country ' s own people haven ' t been able to see : the pyramids of Meroe , a city that served as the Kingdom of Kush ' s capital. They number about 200 , which is far more than are found in all of Egypt ( Science Alert puts Egypt ' s number at 138. ) The Meroe pyramids sit on the Nile ' s east bank , roughly a 4-hour drive from the capital , Khartoum. Though they are far shorter than the pyramids at Giza  Mamo notes the Great Pyramid stands 455 feet , versus 30 to 100 feet here  they functioned as royal burial sites as well. And Sudan is now hoping that the 2019 end of Omar Hassan al-Bashir ' s 30-year dictatorship will open up this archaeological wonder to the world. That is , if flooding doesn ' t cause ruin. story continues below Smithsonian reported in September on the Nile ' s record water levels , caused by heavier than usual rains during the country ' s June-to-October rainy season. Meroe is located only 1,650 feet from the banks of the Nile. That was once fortuitous : Ozy reports that thanks to the positioning , ancient "" irrigated farms flourished next to lucrative gold and iron mines. "" Mamo notes that wind and sand erosion are a threat as well. Still , in a piece for the New York Times , he describes walking "" alone among the buildings , including a temple devoted to Apedemak , a lion-headed warrior god worshiped in Nubia. On the opposite side of the site , ram-shaped sculptures accompanied us to the entrance of the Amun temple , built around the first century AD and considered one of the most important archaeological structures and tourist attractions in Sudan. "" ( Read more Pyramids stories. )"
276,"As the death toll continues to climb after a 7.2 magnitude earthquake slammed Haiti over the weekend , killing at least 1,300 and injuring thousands , one dire issue is quickly emerging : the lack of sufficient medical care. Per the New York Times , the nation already had a dearth of doctors , and now , after Saturday ' s major quake , that situation has only worsened. Medical personnel are scarce  the paper notes there are only a few dozen doctors available for a region that houses 1 million people  as are supplies such as antibiotics and IV drips , and broiling parking lots have been transformed into makeshift outpatient centers. "" I ' m the only surgeon over there , "" says an orthopedic surgeon toiling in an interim operating room made out of corrugated tin near the Les Cayes airport. "" I would like to operate on 10 people today , but I just don ' t have the supplies. "" story continues below The AP notes that small planes from a private company and a missionary group have been transporting injured patients out of Les Cayes and to Port-au-Prince. Members from a Cuban mission have been administering first aid to patients , while the US Coast Guard , along with USAID , has been sending medical staff to the quake region via helicopter , then bringing the injured back to the capital. Doctors Without Borders is on the scene providing medical assistance , the Pan American Health Organization is organizing medical support , and UNICEF is passing out medical supplies to affected hospitals. Still , medical workers are struggling. "" Basically , they need everything , "" a pediatrician who ' s visited two hospitals in the Les Cayes area tells the AP. "" Many of the patients have open wounds and they have been exposed to not-so-clean elements. We anticipate a lot of infections. "" ( Read more Haiti stories. )"
277,"We use cookies. By Clicking "" OK "" or any content on this site , you agree to allow cookies to be placed. Read more in our privacy policy"
278,"A 13th person has died from injuries suffered in one of New York City ' s deadliest fires in decades. Police say 27-year-old Holt Francis was critically injured in the Dec. 28 Bronx apartment building fire and died at a hospital on Thursday , the AP reports. They say the fire was caused by a 3-year-old boy playing with stove burners. Francis ' wife , their two daughters , and a niece were also killed in the fire. Eight adults and five children died in the blaze. story continues below Among them was 28-year-old Army National Guard soldier Emmanuel Mensah , who rescued at least four people that night before going back into the burning building and dying of smoke inhalation. Sen. Chuck Schumer has written to the Army , asking them to honor Mensah ' s bravery with a posthumous award , the New York Daily News reports. ( Read more New York City stories. )"
279,""" There is no other day that we are more ready than today , "" rescue director Narongsak Osottanakorn said , in announcing that 18 divers had gone in to rescue the Thai soccer team trapped in a cave since late June. "" Otherwise we will lose the opportunity. "" Now , the BBC reports that four boys have emerged from the cave ( or six , per Reuters ) and been taken to the hospital. The operation has been put on hold for at least 10 hours because "" we ' ve used all the oxygen , "" Narongsak tells the Guardian. "" For the next operation to happen , we cannot say. It will be between 10 and 20 hours , but not over 20. But we have to evaluate all the factors. Air tanks must be put back into place. "" story continues below After a deluge of rain overnight , officials feared worsening flooding in coming days would close the window to rescue the boys and their coach. The mission is an ordeal that could easily last into Monday , notes the BBC : Each boy is being accompanied out by two divers , one of which carries his oxygen , through a darkened journey that includes "" walking , wading , climbing , and diving. "" A doctor examined the boys earlier Sunday , notes the Guardian , and gave the greenlight for the rescue. "" This is D-Day , "" said Osottanakorn. "" The boys are ready. "" ( Read more Thailand stories. )"
280,"A former rugby player for the New Zealand Warriors , his wife , and their three young children have died after a car fire , and Australian police say they ' re now treating the site of the deadly blaze as a crime scene. Per the Australian , via the New York Times , witnesses who spotted a white car engulfed in flames rolling down down a street in the Camp Hill suburb of Brisbane Wednesday morning put wood in the vehicle ' s path to stop it , then watched in horror as a woman fell out of the car. One witness says that woman , since identified as 31-year-old Hannah Baxter , yelled , "" He ' s poured petrol on me ! "" The BBC notes that when police finally arrived on the scene , her three children , ages 6 , 4 , and 3 , were found dead inside the car. Per ABC Australia , cops say the woman ' s husband , 42-year-old Rowan Baxter , was found dead outside the car with self-inflicted stab wounds. story continues below Hannah Baxter was taken to a hospital , where she later died from her burn injuries. A bystander who ' d tried to help the family was also treated by paramedics and hospitalized for burns on his face. Fox Sports , which says Rowan and Hannah Baxter were estranged , cites a witness who talked to the Courier Mail , claiming that Rowan Baxter got into the car Hannah Baxter was driving while doing a school run , set it on fire , then stabbed himself to death. CNN cites local media that reports Rowan Baxter doused the car in fuel he ' d gotten from a local gas station. Authorities , however , are still staying tight-lipped on exactly what happened. "" For us to call it a murder-suicide or an accident is not appropriate at the moment , "" Detective Inspector Mark Thompson of the Queensland Police Service told reporters , per the Times , adding it wasn ' t clear if an accelerant had been used in the car fire. ( Read more Australia stories. )"
281,"It ' s 2018 , so where are the flying cars ? On Sunday , the answer to that question was Santa Ana , Calif. , where a white sedan crashed into a dental office on the second floor of a two-story building. Orange County Fire Authority spokesman Capt. Stephen Horner says the vehicle became airborne when it came from a side street at high speed around 5 : 30am and T-boned the center median on 17th Street , the Washington Post reports. KABC reports that police say a dirt mound surrounding the concrete median apparently helped the car achieve liftoff. story continues below The crash caused a small blaze inside the office , which firefighters quickly extinguished. Horner says one person in the car was able to get out on their own while the other was rescued more than an hour later after heavy equipment was used to stabilize the vehicle. A witness tells NBC Los Angeles that the one occupant ended up dangling from the bottom of the vehicle until police could catch him. Both occupants were treated for minor injuries. Police say the driver of the Nissan Altima admitted using narcotics , the Los Angeles Times reports. Firefighters used a specialized firetruck to extract the vehicle from the building. ( Read more car crash stories. )"
282,"An explosive wildfire closed down dozens of miles of a major California freeway only weeks after a nearby blaze left neighborhoods in ruins and killed eight people. The Delta Fire erupted Wednesday afternoon and within hours had devoured nearly 8 square miles of timber and brush on both sides of Interstate 5 north of Redding near the Oregon state line. The blaze was human-caused , fire officials said , but they didn ' t indicate whether it was arson or accident. Truckers abandoned their vehicles as flames roared up hillsides. In a video , a passenger in a vehicle screams : "" Oh my God , I want to go ! "" as trees burst into flames and sheets of fire roiled on the side of the roadway. story continues below About 17 big-rigs were abandoned and at least four caught fire , Lt. Cmdr. Kyle Foster of the California Highway Patrol ' s Mount Shasta office tells the Los Angeles Times. US Forest Service workers helped the driver of one flaming truck to safety and other truckers , firefighters , and others aided additional drivers , he said. "" There ' s vehicles scattered all over , "" fire official Brandon Vaccaro tells the Redding Record Searchlight. "" Whatever occurred here was probably pretty ugly for a while. "" About 45 miles of the I-5 remained closed in both directions through Wednesday night and there was no immediate word on when the lanes would reopen. A nearby fire in the Redding area burned some 1,100 homes and killed eight people last month. It was only fully contained last week. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
283,"No need to rush to see the Leaning Tower of Pisa before it falls. The famous Italian tower is doing just fine more than 800 years after it first started tilting during construction , according to a group that ' s been monitoring the 190-foot Tuscan monument since 2001. It ' s in better condition now than predicted by an international committee of researchers , reports ANSA. Indeed , the tower has lost 1.5 inches of its tilt over the past two decades  it was closed in 1990 because its tilt became too considerable , per Popular Science  with "" oscillations now varying at the average of 1/2 millimeter a year , "" says Nunziante Squeglia , a professor of geotechnics at the University of Pisa. story continues below "" What counts the most is the stability of the bell tower , which is better than expected , "" adds Squeglia , who credits work to stabilize the structure on soft soil. A study published in May actually pointed out the importance of that soil in keeping Pisa ' s landmark upright. Essentially , the soft soil modifies ground vibrations  not uncommon in Italy , which sits on multiple fault lines  to prevent much motion in the tower , which has emerged undamaged from at least four strong earthquakes since 1280. "" Ironically , the very same soil that caused the leaning instability and brought the Tower to the verge of collapse , can be credited for helping it survive these seismic events , "" an engineer says in a release. ( Still , you may be underwhelmed. )"
284,"Thousands of angry Chinese took to the streets in Sichuan province yesterday to protest the environmental fallout of a copper alloy plant  and by nightfall had halted its construction , reports the Guardian. Police fired tear gas to disperse crowds in Shifang , which is still recovering from the 2008 earthquake , and at least 13 people were injured. But authorities later announced the suspension of work at the plant , which residents fear will pollute the local environment with toxic byproducts including sulfur odium dioxide. Such protests are growing in China , notes the Guardian , as citizens grow increasingly worried about Beijing ' s disregard for the environment in favor of industrialization. story continues below Police warned that protesters involved in "" incitement , planning , and organizing the illegal assembly demonstrations , and vandalizing "" would be severely punished unless they surrendered to authorities within three days , reports the Telegraph. The case shows the problem with China ' s lack of front-end public participation in environmental decision-making , says an environmentalist. "" In other countries the public have legal recourse when their right to participation cannot be guaranteed , but that is not possible in China , "" he says. ( Read more China stories. )"
285,"The 1 million revelers expected to flood Times Square on Sunday night are in for a seriously frigid start to 2018. CBS News reports the current forecast of 11 degrees with a wind chill close to zero will tie 2017 with 1962 for New York City ' s coldest New Year ' s Eve celebration. The coldest ever was in 1917 , when it was 1 degree at midnight. With people expected to start gathering up to nine hours before the ball drops , the Today show ' s Al Roker has some suggestions for keeping warm. "" Folks should start with a base layer of long underwear of merino wool and then use a number of lighter layers , finishing with a good warm coat , "" he tells USA Today. He also warns that while "" booze may go down all warm and tingly , "" it will ultimately make "" you feel colder. "" So keep that champagne corked until , let ' s say , August. ( Read more New Year ' s Eve stories. )"
286,"President Obama reaffirmed today that Americans in Japan should get at least 50 miles away from the damaged nuclear plant , but he doesn ' t think Americans elsewhere have much cause for worry : "" I want to be very clear , "" he said in a brief statement on the crisis. "" We do not expect harmful levels of radiation to reach the West Coast , Hawaii , Alaska , or US territories in the Pacific. "" Minute traces may reach California tomorrow. story continues below The president also said US nuclear plants were safe , but he ordered the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to conduct a review in the wake of massive earthquake , reports USA Today. "" When we see a crisis like the one in Japan , we have a responsibility to learn from this event. "" He added , notably , that nuclear power remains "" an important part of our own energy future , "" reports Time. ( Read more President Obama stories. )"
287,"Mayans appear to have been done in by a series of severe droughts , and archaeologists now think that something called a "" drought cult "" sprang up when things were most desperate , reports National Geographic. Researchers led by Lisa Lucero of the University of Illinois have found a water temple in the forest of Belize at which Mayans from all over Central America left offerings to their gods with one plea in mind : Make it rain. "" The pilgrims came there to purify themselves and to make offerings , "" says Lucero. "" It was a special place with a sacred function. "" story continues below In a soon-to-be-published report in the Cambridge Archaeological Journal , Lucero and a co-author will report that offerings at the Cara Blanca temple increased as the Mayan drought widened. The empire disappeared about 800AD , and previous research suggests a fateful twist preceded the collapse : Long before the droughts appeared , "" high rainfall likely led to a Maya population boom "" that lasted until 660AD , reports the Geographic. "" That in turn set up their kingdoms for a fall when the rain stopped. "" ( An explorer recently found a Mayan "" monster mouth city. "" )"
288,"Flooding so-called "" sanctuary cities "" with undocumented immigrants is apparently just one way the president might further his immigration-reform agenda , ABC News reports. It ' s "" an option on the table , "" Sarah Sanders said Sunday on This Week. "" Certainly this wouldn ' t be our first choice because ideally we wouldn ' t be dealing with a massive influx of illegal immigrants coming across the border. "" The White House press secretary also suggested Congress is incapable of comprehending Trump ' s tax returns should they get released , per the Daily Beast. Calling it a "" dangerous , dangerous road , "" she said that "" I don ' t think Congress , particularly not this group of congressmen and women , are smart enough to look through the thousands of pages that I would assume that president Trump ' s taxes will be. "" ( Read more immigration stories. )"
289,"Fire officials called for thousands of evacuations as numerous homes remained threatened by Northern California wildfires today , while more than 9,000 firefighters battled 21 major fires in the state , officials say. Wildfires are also burning in Washington and Oregon as the West Coast suffers the effects of drought and summer heat. The largest California wildfire is raging in the Lower Lake area north of San Francisco and nearly tripled in size over the weekend to 84 square miles. story continues below The fire has destroyed 24 homes and 26 outbuildings and is threatening 6,300 homes , many of them ranches scattered in rural areas ranging from grasslands to steep hills. Officials have ordered 12,000 people to evacuate homes , the Sacramento Bee reports. Several roads have been closed. Fire officials "" are calling the behavior of this fire unprecedented , "" a state fire spokesman tells the Bee. "" It is jaw-dropping to see some of the things it is doing. "" The fires have also taken a human toll : One firefighter was killed at the scene of a fire at the Modoc National Forest , 100 miles south of the Oregon border , and four other were burned in a blaze near Sacramento. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
290,""" We ' re not going to gamble with the lives of the people of South Carolina , "" says Gov. Henry McMaster , who has ordered the mandatory evacuation of the state ' s entire coastline , effective noon Tuesday , as Hurricane Florence closes in. McMaster says lanes on four main roads leading from the coast will be reversed and schools and state offices in the eastern half of the state will be closed , the State reports. The order will affect an estimated 1 million people and another 245,000 are under a mandatory evacuation order in low-lying areas of coastal Virginia , the Guardian reports. Florence is expected to strengthen to a Category 5 hurricane Tuesday before hitting the Carolinas with terrifying force Thursday. story continues below Mandatory evacuation orders are also in place for parts of North Carolina , where Gov. Roy Cooper has warned of a triple threat from "" ocean surge along our coast , strong winds , and inland flooding from heavy rain , "" the News &amp; Observer reports. Florence is expected to be the strongest hurricane to hit the Carolinas since Hazel in 1954 , though forecasters say it could behave more like 2017 ' s Harvey , which stalled over Texas , dumping huge amounts of rain , the AP reports. "" I think this is very Harvey-esque , "" says hurricane expert Brian McNoldy. "" Normally , a landfalling tropical cyclone just keeps on going inland , gradually dissipating and raining itself out. But on rare occasions , the steering patterns can line up such that a storm slips into a dead zone between troughs and ridges. "" ( Read more Hurricane Florence stories. )"
291,"The United States Geological Service says there is a 1 in 100 chance of a major earthquake on California ' s San Andreas Fault in the next week  up from a 1 in 10,000 chance in a typical week. The raised risk is due to a swarm of small earthquakes detected along the fault this week , including a magnitude 4.6 quake under the Salton Sea Monday morning , the Los Angeles Times reports. The risk was raised to the same level during a similar swarm of earthquakes in 2016 , one of only three other such swarms spotted in the last 88 years. Experts say that in a worst-case scenario , the fault could unleash a devastating magnitude 8.2 earthquake from the Mexican border through Los Angeles County and all the way north to Monterey County. story continues below The swarm "" does increase the chance of a big earthquake on the San Andreas somewhat , "" says USGS research geophysicist Morgan Page , per the Times. "" So it ' s definitely something to watch. "" Similar swarms haven ' t resulted in bigger quakes so it ' s "" not necessarily doom and gloom , "" Page says , "" but every time it happens , we do worry that this could be the time that it triggers something. "" Google announced Tuesday that an earthquake alert system has been built into Android phones , and California users will receive a warning when they are near a quake of 4.5 magnitude or greater , the AP reports. The move will give "" millions precious seconds to drop , cover , and hold on when the big one hits , "" Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a statement. ( Read more San Andreas Fault stories. )"
292,"A preteen being hailed as a hero in the earthquake that rocked Italy ' s Ischia island Monday was yanked out of the rubble Tuesday afternoon , as were his two little brothers , whom he ' s credited with saving. The BBC reports that 11-year-old Ciro was the last of the three siblings to be pulled out of the debris  his 7-month-old brother , Pasquale , and 8-year-old brother , Mattias , were rescued earlier Tuesday , and it ' s said Ciro may have ensured at least one brother ' s survival by pushing Mattias under a bed in the family ' s home when the quake started. "" When everything crumbled , I hugged my brother , and then when the rescuers came , I pushed him out first , "" Ciro was quoted by the ANSA news agency as telling rescuers , via CBS News. story continues below "" I promised them that after this was all over we would all go get a pizza together , "" one rescuer told local media of the efforts to save the boys , which involved firefighters digging into the wreckage with their bare hands and sending water through a tube to the thirsty children. The boys ' parents had found their way out of the building and alerted officials their kids were still trapped inside. Ciro was said to have alerted rescuers to their presence by using a broom handle to make noise against the 12 feet of rubble he was buried under. Officials say one person died and several dozen were injured in the quake , which has been described as being between 3.6 and 4.0 magnitude. ( Read more uplifting news stories. )"
293,"As lava , toxic gases , and steam continue to burst through new vents in the ground of a Hawaii neighborhood , the 1,700 people evacuated from the area have no idea when they might be able to go home  and some no longer have homes to return to. Hawaii County officials say at least 30 structures , including 26 homes , have been been destroyed by lava in the Leilani Estates subdivision , the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports. Some residents whose streets were declared safe were allowed to briefly return to the neighborhood on Hawaii ' s Big Island Sunday to collect pets , medicines , and vital documents , reports KHON 2. story continues below Amber Makuakane , a 37-year-old teacher and single mother of two , tells the AP that her home , across from a fissure that opened up Friday , was among those destroyed. "" The volcano and the lava  it ' s always been a part of my life , "" says Makuakane , who grew up in the area. "" It ' s devastating ... but I ' ve come to terms with it. "" Hundreds of earthquakes have hit the area in recent days , among them a magnitude 6.9 quake Friday , the strongest to hit the state in 43 years. Scientists say there is no sign that the quakes and the increased activity of the Kilauea volcano , which has sent lava into underground chambers beneath the subdivision , will stop any time soon. ( Read more Kilauea volcano stories. )"
294,"The San Onofre nuclear plant north of San Diego was closed last evening to deal with a radiation leak that regulators say posed no danger to the public or to plant workers. The plant ' s operators say a small quantity of radioactive gas escaped from a leaky tube in a steam generator , the Los Angeles Times reports. story continues below The steam generator system was replaced just over a year ago and the plant is going to investigate why the new system leaked. San Onofre  located on the coast next to a military base in an earthquake-prone part of California  came under fresh scrutiny after the Fukushima disaster in Japan last year and was declared safe  although environmental groups want it shut down , ABC reports. ( Read more San Onofre nuclear plant stories. )"
295,"Millions of Californians prepared to be in the dark  some for five days , or longer  as the nation ' s largest utility said it was switching off power again Tuesday to prevent powerful winds from damaging its equipment and sparking more fires. Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Corp. said its latest blackout will start early Tuesday and affect 605,000 customers  about 1.5 million people  in 29 Northern California counties. The announcement came even before the last blackout had ended , which shut power to more than 2.5 million people. It wasn ' t clear if power , that for many went out Saturday , would be restored before the next round of outages , the AP reports. What was clear was that patience was wearing thin and frustration at the utility was growing. story continues below From the suburbs of San Francisco up north to the wine country , people searched for places Monday to charge phones and stock up on ice. Powerful winds are driving multiple fires across California and the deliberate shut-offs are intended to prevent blazes. Crews are battling a huge wildfire in Sonoma County wine country that has destroyed 96 buildings. PG&E said Monday its power lines may have started two wildfires over the weekend in the San Francisco Bay Area despite the blackouts. "" PG&E can ' t figure out how to deliver power reliably without killing people , "" says Petaluma resident Scotty Richardson. "" This is more than three strikes  it ' s a failure of epic proportions. "" The utility ' s stock dropped 24 % Monday to close at $ 3.80 and was down more than 50 % since Thursday. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
296,"Fire officials say one person is dead as California ' s fastest wildfire in recent history continues to race across the north end of the state. It ' s the blaze experts had feared all summer : At least 400 homes have been destroyed in Lake and Napa counties , with flames initially ripping through 40,000 acres in just 12 hours. "" There aren ' t very many fires in California ' s history that have done that. I don ' t know if there really is a precedent for it , "" a scientist tells the Los Angeles Times. "" This fire sort of broke the rules , "" he adds. "" It is kind of mind-boggling. "" The fire got so large that it created its own wind conditions. "" As fire crews would make progress  hold the fire  it would burn right past them , "" a California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection rep says. It ' s now scorched an area roughly 75 square miles and containment is at zero , per the Times. story continues below A fire department rep says the blaze may have started as a structure fire that quickly escaped "" outside of the structure. "" Embers caught on the wind , then ignited spot fires up to a mile away where dense vegetation has been dried by hot temperatures and drought conditions. Residents of Middletown , home to 1,000 , say half the town has been turned to ash , including a hot springs resort and brand-new elementary school. It ' s "" the worst tragedy Lake County has ever seen , "" says a sheriff. Fire officials add that the number of homes destroyed in the area could reach 1,000 as "" crews have not had a chance to do a full damage assessment , "" per the Sacramento Bee and CBS San Francisco. "" We are going to be amazed at the number of structures lost there , "" adds a rep for the Governor ' s Office of Emergency Services. "" There are people who are going to be homeless. "" ( Read more California stories. )"
297,"More than 80 major fires are burning across the West as it suffers a drought and high temperatures , including the Tamarack fire near Lake Tahoe , which exploded to 30 square miles Sunday. It first ignited two weeks ago due to lightning , the AP reports. Roads were closed and evacuations were ordered , including for some campgrounds in the area. Nevada firefighters were facing a Red Flag warning Sunday , meaning hot weather , low humidity , and strong winds , USA Today reports. story continues below Other major fires include Oregon ' s Bootleg Fire at 476 square miles , California ' s Beckwourth Complex Fire at 164 square miles , and Dixie Fire at 39 square miles. Others were burning in 13 states from Minnesota to New Mexico and Alaska to California , and dangerous fire weather is expected through Monday , with thunderstorms and lightning possible from California to Montana. ( Read more wildfires stories. )"
298,"Nothing like starting the Women ' s World Cup on a positive note. Hope Solo , the US team ' s former goalkeeper , trashed the team ' s coach just three days before their Tuesday opener against Thailand , Reuters reports. "" Jill  she ' s not the leader I wish her to be , "" said Solo of Jill Ellis during an interview with the BBC. "" She relies heavily on her assistant coaches. She cracks under the pressure quite a bit. But oftentimes it doesn ' t matter , because the quality of the players on the US team is superb. "" In fact , Solo said the team ' s coach makes little difference : "" We have a rich history of winning , a winning tradition , and it doesn ' t matter oftentimes who ' s coaching us , because we ' ll find a way to win ... in spite of who the coach is. "" story continues below As if that wasn ' t enough , Solo penned a BBC column in which she criticized Ellis for lacking a tough approach. Ellis , the team ' s coach since 2014 , "" has not shown mistakes to defenders because she thinks it might affect their confidence , "" writes Hope , who later adds that Ellis "" told me time and again she didn ' t want to hurt anybody ' s confidence , so we won ' t look at goals and we won ' t look at defensive mistakes. "" In Hope ' s view , "" that ' s the wrong decision. "" A little jawing is nothing new for Solo , who was suspended from the team and saw her contract terminated when she branded the Swedish team "" a bunch of cowards "" after the Swedes beat the US on penalty kicks in 2016. Solo has also sued US soccer for alleged gender discrimination , per NBC Sports , and accused the former head of FIFA of sexual assault. ( Read more Hope Solo stories. )"
299,"Next time the ground shakes in Mexico , the Department of Defense and the US Geological Survey want to know about it. The agencies are spending $ 500,000 to install earthquake monitoring machines in Mexican border regions , the Los Angeles Times reports. Officials say they don ' t want a repeat of the confusion after last year ' s Mexicali earthquake , when hours went by before they knew where the quake ' s epicenter was and where aftershocks were headed. story continues below "" We basically have a big blind spot to the south  unless we can get data from the Mexican network. So that allows us to expand our ability to see what ' s going on , "" the coordinator for the Southern California Seismic Network says. "" Without instrumentation , how do you know what ' s gone on ? All you know is , gosh , something bad happened in Mexicali. "" The Mexican government is spending $ 50 million on a separate upgrade of its own system. ( Read more Mexico stories. )"
300,"The death toll in Tennessee ' s devastating floods is at least 22 , authorities said Sunday , with about 20 others confirmed to be missing. The victims range in age from just months old to elderly in the Humphreys County tragedy. Among the dead is Wayne Spears , the longtime foreman of the Loretta Lynn Ranch in Hurricane Mills , who was checking on animals in a barn at the time , USA Today reports. "" The Ranch will never be the same without him but he will always be remembered for his ready smile , kind heart , and willingness to go the extra mile for everyone around him , "" the ranch , a tourist attraction that holds events and offers camping , says in a Facebook post. story continues below There have been a few instances of looting , and the area is under an 8pm curfew , the Tennessean reports. It ' s also under a boil water advisory , and some roads and schools are closed. Hundreds of homes are estimated to be uninhabitable after 17 inches of rain fell in the town of Waverly on Saturday. No more hazardous weather is expected for the next week. Fox 17 has the unimaginable story of twin 7-month-olds who died when they were swept out of their father ' s arms ; he was also holding their two older siblings at the time , according to a GoFundMe for the family. A 2-year-old is still missing after being pulled from the arms of his mother , who was holding on to a clothesline and trying to hang on to five children at the same time , the Tennessean reports. ( Read more Tennessee stories. )"
301,"President Trump threatened to withdraw federal funds Wedneday after apparently misinterpreting a move from Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson. The president , who has repeatedly criticized Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer , claimed the state had sent absentee ballots to 7.7 million voters. "" This was done illegally and without authorization by a rogue Secretary of State , "" he tweeted. "" I will ask to hold up funding to Michigan if they want to go down this Voter Fraud path ! "" Benson , however , had sent applications for mail-in ballots , not the ballots themselves. "" I also have a name , it  s Jocelyn Benson , "" she tweeted. "" And we sent applications , not ballots. Just like my GOP colleagues in Iowa , Georgia , Nebraska , and West Virginia. "" story continues below In another tweet , Trump said the military had been sent to deal with flooding in Michigan , but Whitmer "" must now ' set you free ' to help. "" Trump is strongly opposed to expanding mail-in voting amid the pandemic , but it ' s not clear who he believes needed to authorize Michigan ' s decision ; Republicans have long "" resisted efforts to inject federal oversight "" into state elections , Politico notes. In another tweet Wednesday , the president threatened to cut off funding to Nevada for sending out "" illegal vote by mail ballots , creating a great Voter Fraud scenario. "" Rep. Dina Titus slammed Trump for "" threatening to harm Nevadans "" and said that the decision to make June 9 congressional primaries all-mail was made by Nevada ' s Republican secretary of state , the Nevada Independent reports. ( Read more Michigan stories. )"
302,"A fire engulfed a warehouse on San Francisco ' s Fisherman ' s Wharf early Saturday , sending a thick plume of smoke over the waterfront and threatening to spread to a historic World War II-era ship before firefighters brought the flames under control , the AP reports. No injuries have been reported and firefighters were making multiple searches to ensure no one was inside the building on Pier 45 , San Francisco Fire Lt. Jonathan Baxter told reporters from the scene. The warehouse , which holds fish processing equipment and a few offices , is typically unoccupied at night but homeless people have been seen in buildings and warehouses in the area , Baxter said. story continues below "" That is something of grave concern , that is why we ' re actively trying to confirm if anybody saw anybody in this building , "" he told KGO-TV. "" To our knowledge ... nobody is supposed to be in the building and we are hoping ... that there is no victim. "" The fire broke out before dawn and tore through the warehouse near the end of the concrete pier , causing its walls to collapse , Baxter said. The first fire truck to respond to the scene sustained some damage. More than 130 firefighters fought the flames , with some using ladder trucks to drench the warehouse from above. A fire boat was used to protect the SS Jeremiah O ' Brien , a liberty ship that stormed Normandy on D-Day in 1944. The ship docks by Pier 45 and is a popular tourist attraction. ( Read more fire stories. )"
303,"Starbucks may have succumbed to pressure and moved its bottled water operation out of parched California , but Nestl will "" absolutely not "" follow suit. In fact , despite demonstrations and a slew of online petitions ( like this , this , and this ) aimed at getting Nestl to stop what it ' s doing , the company would , in a perfect world , boost the 700 million gallons of water it now uses. "" If I could increase it , I would , "" says Tim Brown , who heads Nestl Waters North America , in an interview with radio station KPCC. "" The fact is , if I stop bottling water tomorrow , people would buy another brand of bottled water. We feel good about what we ' re doing , delivering healthy hydrating to people throughout the state of California , "" he said , per the Guardian. ( In the same interview , NASA JPL ' s top water scientist points out that bottling water requires as much as 50 % more water than turning on the tap. ) story continues below Brown says Nestl wastes some 30 % of the groundwater it draws from the state , but the company this week announced plans to cut that figure by 12 % at its Bakersfield and Tulare bottling facilities  two of five in the state  for a savings of 26 million gallons. That isn ' t nearly enough to help combat "" the worst drought we ' ve seen in a long time , "" says charity Food &amp; Water Watch. "" It ' s irresponsible of the state to allow Nestl to bottle water that ' s supposed to be a public resource , "" a rep says. "" We ' re calling for a moratorium on bottling water for private profit. "" In an editorial for the San Bernardino County Sun in late April , Brown argued that "" bottled water is not a contributing factor to the drought "" and noted that the 700 million gallons Nestl uses "" is roughly equal to the annual average watering needs of two California golf courses. "" ( Another big company is similarly under fire. )"
304,"Elon Musk has made at least a few tweets he probably regrets ( or maybe not ) , but one in particular will see him in court this week for a defamation trial. In October , a judge rejected Musk ' s attempts to nix the lawsuit brought against him by British diver Vernon Unsworth , who helped with the rescue of 12 boys and their soccer coach from a flooded Thai cave in July 2018. The trial tied to the suit begins Tuesday in Los Angeles , with both Musk and Unsworth expected to testify , their attorneys tell CNN Business. The rift between the two men started while the 2018 rescue effort was still ongoing , with Musk offering to send a mini-submarine to help get the boys and the coach out. Unsworth rolled his eyes at that idea and called it a "" PR stunt. "" story continues below That ' s when Musk went on a diatribe against Unsworth , calling him "" pedo guy "" in a since-deleted tweet , as well as emailing a BuzzFeed reporter that he should "" stop defending child rapists "" ( in reference to Unsworth ) . There ' s no evidence that Unsworth has ever been involved in any pedophilia , and Musk himself has said he didn ' t use the term "" pedo guy "" literally , but as a "" common insult used in South Africa "" when he was a kid , meaning "" creepy old man. "" Per the BBC , Musk could take the stand right after jury selection is completed. Unsworth is said to be seeking at least $ 75,000 in punitive and compensatory damages , Wired reports. As for whether Musk regrets this series of statements against Unsworth , court filings related to the defamation case and cited by Wired reveal that in an email to a public relations adviser in September 2018 , Musk wrote : "" I ' m a f --- ing idiot. "" ( Read more Elon Musk stories. )"
305,"Security experts have been spotting so-called "" fake cellphone towers "" of unknown origin that could be spying on us. The "" interceptors , "" as they ' re called , trick our phones into thinking they ' re regular cell towers ; then , according to VentureBeat , they can listen to our calls or pave the way for spyware. The boss of ESD America , maker of an extra-secure phone , told Popular Science about the interceptors last week , but they remain mysterious. They ' re not part of known cell phone networks , VentureBeat reports , nor are they run by the NSA , say experts. "" The NSA doesn  t need a fake tower , "" an exec with a cloud security firm tells VentureBeat. Those officials "" can just go to the carrier "" if they want to snoop. story continues below These interceptors may not be physical towers , despite what some reports may have suggested , the Blaze reports. "" When we say a fake cellphone tower , that can be simply a laptop with two dongles plugged into it , "" ESD boss Les Goldsmith says. He suggests the interceptors could be the work of the military or police. But such equipment appears to have been used outside the US "" possibly to send spam or to direct unsuspecting victims to malicious websites , "" says another expert. What ' s more , the contraptions  simple versions of which cost about $ 1,500 , per Wired  are likely "" mobile , "" says a security writer at welivesecurity.com , as cited in the Smithsonian. ( Read about a country where "" every cell phone call "" is recorded. )"
306,"Rack up another racially tinged remark for Steve King. The Iowa representative Thursday compared Iowa flood victims to Hurricane Katrina victims in New Orleans in 2005  and the Iowans come out a little better in his eyes , CNN reports. "" Here ' s what FEMA tells me. We go to a place like New Orleans , and everybody ' s looking around saying , ' Who ' s going to help me ? Who ' s going to help me? ' "" he said at a town hall in Charter Oak , Iowa ( see Facebook video here ) . "" We go to a place like Iowa , and we go , we go see , knock on the door at , say , I ' ll make up a name , John ' s place , and say , ' John , you got water in your basement , we can write you a check , we can help you. ' "" story continues below "" And John will say , ' Well , wait a minute , let me get my boots. It ' s Joe that needs help. Let ' s go down to his place and help him. ' "" He went on to say FEMA is "" always gratified when they come and see Iowans take care of each other. "" FEMA , however , wasn ' t quite on board : "" @SteveKingIA ' s recent comments about @FEMA comparing recovery efforts are inaccurate , "" tweets FEMA spokeswoman Lizzie Litzow. Louisiana lawmakers also struck back , with House Minority Whip Steve Scalise calling King ' s remarks "" absurd and offensive , "" while CNN notes that Katrina killed over 1,500 in Louisiana alone , a far higher death toll that the few victims of flooding in Iowa and Nebraska. King recently turned heads by asking how "" white nationalist "" and "" white supremacist "" became offensive terms , the Hill recalls. ( Read more Steve King stories. )"
307,"The US and much of the western hemisphere are likely to face drought conditions worse than anything seen in modern times over the decades to come , scientists warn. National Center for Atmospheric Research scientists , working with climate models and greenhouse gas predictions , believe that severe drought will affect areas including two-thirds of the US , southern Europe , and much of Latin America beginning in the 2030s , LiveScience reports. story continues below "" If the projections in this study come even close to being realized , the consequences for society worldwide will be enormous , "" one of the scientists says , although he cautions that many variables exist , including natural climate cycles and emission reductions. In what may be a small taste of things to come for the American West , Lake Mead , the country ' s biggest reservoir , has fallen to its lowest level since it was filled 75 years ago , the New York Times notes. Experts believe it may vanish completely by 2021. ( Read more drought stories. )"
308,"The US Geological Survey says a powerful magnitude 7.7 earthquake struck south of Cuba and northwest of Jamaica on Tuesday , the AP reports. It was centered 86 miles northwest of Montego Bay , Jamaica , and 87 miles west-southwest of Niquero , Cuba. It hit at 2 : 10pm EST and the epicenter was a relatively shallow 6 miles beneath the surface. The quake could be felt strongly in Santiago , the largest far-eastern Cuban city , and people evacuated buildings in Miami as the ground shook , the Miami Herald reports. There are no immediate reports of damage or injuries , but CNN reports a tsunami threat was issued for coastal areas in Belize , the Cayman Islands , Cuba , Honduras , Jamaica , and Mexico ; it was lifted a few hours later , after a tsunami of 0.4 feet was recorded in the Cayman Islands at George Town. story continues below "" We were all sitting and we felt the chairs move , "" said Belkis Guerrero , who works in a Catholic cultural center in the center of Santiago. "" We heard the noise of everything moving around. "" She said there was no apparent damage in the heart of the colonial city. "" It felt very strong but it doesn ' t look like anything happened , ' ' she added. The quake also hit the Cayman Islands , leaving cracked roads and what appeared to be sewage spilling from cracked mains. There were no immediate reports of deaths , injuries , or more severe damage , said Kevin Morales , editor-in-chief of the Cayman Compass newspaper. The islands see so few earthquakes that newsroom staff were puzzled when it hit , he said. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
309,"The Philly PD has a "" mystery "" on its hands , and it involves one of its own vehicles. On Wednesday , a University of Pennsylvania professor spotted an SUV near the Philadelphia Convention Center , souped up with two high-tech license-plate readers and a placard linking it to the Pennsylvania State Police  but with a Google Maps decal smacked onto its window , PhillyVoice.com reports. "" WTF ? "" Matt Blaze tweeted with a picture of the strangely camouflaged vehicle , which the Philadelphia Police Department did confirm Thursday was part of its fleet. "" However , the placing of any particular decal on the vehicle was not approved through any chain of command , "" a department spokesperson said in an emailed statement to Motherboard. The rep adds the decals were ordered to be taken down ASAP and that an investigation was launched. story continues below What some are saying is worrisome is the fact that these Automated License Plate Readers ( ALPRs )  which law enforcement can use for everything from tracking down stolen cars to following up on AMBER Alerts  are able to take in thousands of plate images per minute , basically enabling law enforcement to spy on drivers without warrants. "" It ' s certainly concerning if the city of Philadelphia is running mass surveillance and going out of its way to mislead people , "" Dave Maass , a researcher with the nonprofit Electronic Frontier Foundation , tells Motherboard. Gizmodo marvels at the apparently backfired scheme to cover up the SUV ' s real mission , noting that the Google Maps sticker "" simply looked too handmade. "" Meanwhile , a Google rep tells Motherboard it is also looking into the matter. "" If I were Google , I would be seriously rankled over the use of their logo to hide surveillance , "" Maass says. ( The feds are probably tracking your car. )"
310,"A state of emergency has been declared in Venice , where basillicas , squares and Banksy artwork are underwater. The historic city is dealing with its worst flooding in more than 50 years , Sky News reports. Italy ' s government declared the emergency Thursday. "" It hurts to see the city so damaged , its artistic heritage compromised , its commercial activities on its knees , "" the prime minister said on a visit to confer with city officials , per NPR. A Banksy drawing of a migrant child wearing a life jacket is covered by water ; it surfaced this year on an exterior wall near the Campo San Pantalon , and the artist confirmed it ' s his work on Instagram. story continues below A new surge hit Friday , per the BBC  a high tide of 5 feet. Schools and St Mark ' s Square are closed in the tourist destination , and the waterbuses aren ' t operating. Tourists were walking , with their luggage , along newly installed , raised trestle walkways. About 20 million people visit the city each year. The city ' s mayor said the damage will be in the hundreds of millions of euros. Weekend forecasts are for the water to recede. ( The floods hit "" two minutes "" after a Venice council rejected taking steps to counter the effects of climate change. )"
311,"A faulty power cord to an air-conditioning unit was the cause of a horrific blaze that left Memphis firefighters in tears Monday , officials say. Six children and three adults died in the blaze , which the Memphis fire department says was the city ' s worst since a gas explosion killed 11 people in 1921. The children were between the ages of 3 and 17. WMC Action News 5 reports that a sole survivor , 7- or 8-year old Cameron Hollingsworth , is clinging to life in the hospital , where his condition is extremely critical. "" He ' s fighting so hard. I went in to see him and I touched his hand , "" says Veronica Trammell , whose daughter and grandson died in the blaze. story continues below "" I don ' t know what to say. I don ' t know what to feel , "" Ernest Jett Jr. , father of all seven children , tells the Commercial Appeal. "" They was the best. They was drop-dead gorgeous. Smart. I mean , the most lovingest kids. "" Officials say that the home had a working smoke detector , but firefighters had to break down a security door to gain entry and most of the windows had iron bars over them. Memphis Fire Department Director Gina Sweat told a press conference Monday that the department urges people to install a quick-release device on windows that have security bars. "" Our whole city is in mourning for the loss of much of one family , "" Mayor Jim Strickland said at the same press conference. ( Read more Tennessee stories. )"
312,"No one is quite sure what the bug is , but for now , entomologists are calling it the sugarcane aphid  but instead of sugarcane , the tiny pest is chomping its way through the $ 1 billion Texas sorghum crop , the Houston Chronicle finds. The bug was first spotted just a year ago , and "" we ' re not sure if it  s a new invasive pest or if it just switched hosts , from sugarcane to grain sorghum , "" says Texas A&M entomologist Raul Villanueva. "" But it is a serious threat to this year ' s grain crop and at this time there is no proven control for it. "" story continues below The aphid suddenly showed up in sorghum crops last year in Texas and several other states , and the damage came swiftly. "" In no time at all , growers started seeing dramatic reduction in yields , from 50 % to 70 % , "" and in some cases , entire fields were ravaged , says Villanueva. The bug also excretes "" honeydew , "" whose stickiness befouls harvesting equipment and woos other bugs and fungi , reports Phys.org. The threat to grain sorghum , which is typically used for cattle feed , comes as growers aim for a larger than usual crop this year because of drought and rising grain prices , Southwest Farm Press notes. The state has asked the EPA for an emergency exemption to use Transform WG , a proven insecticide , against it. The bug reproduces so fast that researchers fear biological controls like ladybugs and lacewings won ' t be enough. ( Read more sorghum stories. )"
313,"Crowds gathered late Monday night outside Notre Dame , singing "" Ave Maria "" and other hymns while the iconic cathedral burned. As the mourners sang and prayed , French officials said the building ' s towers have been saved , the AP reports. Crews were able to keep the flames from spreading to the north tower belfry , reported Paris fire commander Jean-Claude Gallet , who said that one firefighter was seriously injured , per CNN. Officials have ruled out arson and terrorism in the fire and are investigating it as an accident. The church ' s spire was undergoing a renovation project. The blaze is thought to have begun in the attic. Flames engulfed the wood-and-lead spire , which fell. Most of the roof fell next. By midnight , officials said firefighters were working to save the church ' s artworks. story continues below As leaders around the world sent condolences to the French people , President Emmanuel Macron , who went to the site , said he will launch an international fundraising campaign on Tuesday. "" We will rebuild this cathedral together , "" he said , per CNN. The cathedral has survived ransacking by Protestant Huguenots in the 1500s , the mobs of the French Revolution in the 1790s , two world wars and botched restorations , Reuters reports. This week each year  Holy Week  Notre Dame brings out some of its coveted relics , including the Holy Crown , believed by many to be from the crown of thorns placed on the head of Jesus. The cathedral says that Catholics have prayed with the Holy Crown for more than 16 centuries. Late Monday night , ash fell from the sky and smoke wafted across Paris. As the crowds around the cathedral increased , the singing grew louder. ( Read more Notre Dame Cathedral stories. )"
314,"No , the predicted Great Pumpkin Shortage of 2015 didn ' t actually live up to its name , as Fortune reported last November. But that ' s in part because the companies that can pumpkins didn ' t hold onto reserves for the following year ' s crop  that would , of course , be this year ' s crop , so the experts are howling again about a looming shortage given last year ' s deficit and continued weather issues. And the lack of pumpkin puree currently available has been a problem for brewers trying to churn out pumpkin beers , reports Draft magazine. Multiple brewers have been scrambling to source their pumpkins , with one resorting to brewing five times while waiting for more puree. Another calls it "" Pumpkageddon. "" story continues below Weather is again an issue , reports Fortune. Last year the biggest producer of pumpkins in the country , Illinois , dealt with heavy summer rains that washed out the crops , which like dry heat in the middle of the summer followed by a few good days of rain in August , as farmers over in New York tell Syracuse News. "" In August , when pumpkins are gaining most of their size , is when we need rain , "" one farmer says. But now large swaths of the US are suffering from droughts , including Illinois and California , the second largest producer of pumpkins. With some pumpkin beers already on the shelves , brewers seem to be finding a way. We ' ll have to wait until 2017 to see what two consecutive years of shortage do to the pumpkin beer supply. ( Most people seem to like pumpkin lattes just once a year. )"
315,"New Orleans was bracing for a likely hurricane Thursday as Tropical Storm Barry formed over the Gulf , the second named storm of the 2019 Atlantic hurricane season. Barry is expected to make landfall along the Louisiana coast as a hurricane Friday night or early Saturday , AccuWeather reports ; if it does reach hurricane status , it will be the first hurricane of the season. A state of emergency has been declared in the state and mandatory evacuations have been issued in some places. Winds are expected to be relatively weak , per the AP , but "" our greatest concern is for torrential rain that would result in life-threatening flooding , "" an AccuWeather hurricane expert says. Rainfall totals are expected to average 10 to 18 inches , and parts of Mississippi and Arkansas are also in danger of flooding. story continues below The storm could be a test of the flood-control improvements made in New Orleans since Hurricane Katrina ; on Wednesday , it had already caused flooding in the city due to a massive downpour. The Mississippi River is already high , and the expected storm surge could possibly send water over the levees and into New Orleans , though Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards said Thursday that is not expected to happen , per the AP. He said the high water forecasts for the river have gone down slightly since Wednesday , but noted that a change in the storm ' s intensity or direction could renew the possibility of the levees being overtopped. This is expected to be the first time a hurricane makes landfall in the state when the river is already at flood stage. New Orleans Mayor LaToya Cantrell also warned that the slow-moving storm could dump water faster than the city ' s pumping system can drain the streets. ( More on the storm , including pictures from Wednesday , here. )"
316,"It ' s a milestone for the nuclear energy industry : The feds today gave their blessing to a Georgia utility company to build two new reactors , the first such approval in 30 years , reports CNN. Southern Co. and its partners will build the reactors in Waynesboro , Ga. , about 170 miles east of Atlanta , at a plant that already has two operating reactors. That will make the Vogtle plant the biggest nuclear complex in the US when they ' re up and running by 2017 , notes the New York Times. story continues below The last time the Nuclear Regulatory Commission granted a license to build a new plant was in 1978 , the year before Three Mile Island. Other plants have gone online since then , but their licenses were issued before 1978. The reactors , expected to cost $ 14 billion , have a design called the AP 1000 by Westinghouse , which is said to be far more sturdy and resistant to earthquakes than older models currently operating. They would provide enough power for 1 million homes. ( Read more nuclear energy stories. )"
317,"It is now officially the future : Hoverboards are real. A company called Arx Pax has developed a skateboard-style device that rides on air instead of wheels , and it ' s raising money to "" perfect "" the project on Kickstarter , Phys.org reports. Arx Pax has already surpassed its $ 250,000 goal. How it works : Four engines on the board create a magnetic field which "" literally pushes against itself , "" the company says on Kickstarter. That pushes the board upward. Says co-inventor Greg Henderson of his Hendo Hoverboard : "" The wheel may finally have some competition. "" story continues below Pretty cool , but it ' s not quite a Marty McFly experience yet , Engadget notes : It only gets about an inch off the ground , and it only works over certain types of metal , including copper and aluminum. It ' s also very loud , according to the Verge ( via Gizmodo ) . Still , it can hold a 300-pound person , Arx Pax says , though the New York Times adds that the board itself weighs 100 pounds. The paper notes that the Hendo Hoverboard "" is basically a publicity stunt. "" What Henderson is really interested in is the broader application of the technology ; a building using it , for instance , might be able to "" ride out an earthquake , "" he says. Meanwhile , for those without hoverboards , there ' s always the cardboard bike. ( Read more hoverboard stories. )"
318,"In a six-page , 2,500-word Politico op-ed ( with an attached three-page , 1,800-word appendix ) , Newt Gingrich makes it crystal clear that he is on the side of Michele Bachmann and her four fellow members of Congress who want an inquiry into whether the government is being infiltrated by Islamic extremists. ( He refers to the group as "" the National Security Five. "" ) According to Gingrich , the quick and plentiful denouncements of Bachmann ' s theory are simply examples "" of the fear our elites have about discussing and understanding radical Islamists , "" he writes. "" You have to wonder why people would aggressively assert we shouldn  t ask about national security concerns. "" story continues below "" It  s as though our leaders have forgotten every lesson of the 1930s about fascism , Nazism , and communism and every lesson from 1945 to 1991 about communism , "" Gingrich writes , noting that "" political correctness "" has taken precedence over security and that the "" elites "" worry that "" if Americans fully understood how serious radical Islamists are , they would demand a more confrontational strategy. "" He quotes Tony Blair and JFK ( and Wikipedia , notes The Blaze incredulously ) , and notes the Fort Hood shootings and the Times Square car bomb as evidence that we must be more vigilant. On Salon , Glenn Greenwald decries Politico ( "" a glorified gossip rag "" ) in general and Gingrich ' s piece in particular , calling it a "" bigoted , McCarthyite screed. "" Click for Gingrich ' s full piece , or Greenwald ' s response. ( Read more Newt Gingrich stories. )"
319,"An "" extreme "" drought is already affecting 82 % of California , researchers say , and 58 % is facing an even worse "" exceptional "" drought  but perhaps the most worrying news deals with the possibility of a 30-year "" megadrought. "" The odds of that occurring now range from 20 % to 50 % in the next 100 years , a Cornell University study finds. Such droughts may be "" worse than anything seen during the last 2,000 years , "" experts say , per the Los Angeles Times. story continues below "" As we add greenhouse gases into the atmosphere  we are weighting the dice for megadrought , "" a researcher notes. And that could lead to migration that ' s never before been seen in the US , the Cornell Chronicle notes. Far higher is the risk of a 10-year drought , one comparable to what was seen during the Dust Bowl , the Times reports. The chances of that are 80 % , and researchers point out that such lengthy dry spells occur about "" once or twice per century. "" New Mexico and Arizona are also likely victims of extended drought , though there ' s some good news for Idaho , Montana , and Washington , whose risk of such a fate may shrink , experts say. ( Read more Southwest stories. )"
320,"Fire officials say New York City ' s deadliest fire in a quarter-century was caused by a 3-year-old boy playing with the burners on a kitchen stove. FDNY Commissioner Daniel Nigro says the boy , who had a history of playing with the stove , screamed to alert his mom to the fire around 7pm Thursday , reports CNN. The family fled the 25-unit apartment building in the Bronx and left their first-floor door open , causing flames to quickly spread into the century-old building ' s stairwell , which acted "" like a chimney , "" Nigro says. Though the building was cited for defective smoke and carbon monoxide detectors in August , per the Los Angeles Times , "" it does not appear that there was anything problematic about the building , "" Mayor Bill de Blasio said on his weekly radio show Friday , per the New York Daily News. "" It seems like a horrible , tragic accident. "" story continues below Twelve people , including four children , died as a result of the blaze. Three men , a 63-year-old woman , and a female infant she was found cradling in a bathtub , died inside the building. A 2-year-old girl also found in the bathtub died in an area hospital , along with a 7-year-old girl and a boy of unknown age , per NBC News. Three women and a man were also pronounced dead at hospitals. The death toll , which includes people on numerous floors , could rise as four civilians are in critical condition. Seven civilians and seven firefighters were hurt overall. "" There was a lot of people coming out in stretchers , burned , "" one witness tells NBC , describing the fire as "" really bad. "" Investigators are reportedly checking to see if a natural gas line contributed to its spread. Records indicate the line was shut down because of a leak in May. A permit to re-pipe the gas distribution system was granted in August. ( Read more New York City stories. )"
321,"A massive boat dock fire in Alabama early Monday killed at least eight people , including minors , authorities have confirmed. Scottsboro Fire Chief Gene Necklaus says it will take days to confirm the identities of the victims and learn the cause of the fire , which destroyed dozens of boats , AL.com reports. The chief says the fire is "" one of the most devastating things "" he has ever seen. Necklaus says the number of dead could go up , "" because we don ' t know how many were on boats "" that sank. The blaze , which began just after midnight , destroyed the wooden dock and at least 35 boats. An aluminum roof that covered many boats melted , cutting off escape routes , the AP reports. story continues below Necklaus says some of the burning boats floated away from the dock before sinking. Authorities say some of the boats anchored at Dock B in Jackson County Park along the Tennessee River were houseboats that served as primary residences for the owners , the Jackson County Sentinel reports. Some of the seven survivors pulled from the water were treated for hypothermia. Marina resident Tommy Jones tells the AP that winds rapidly spread the blaze and he and several other men could only watch helplessly as flames engulfed a boat carrying a woman and her children. "" We didn ' t have time to do nothing , "" says Jones , who cut several boats free before swimming 200 yards to shore. His brother , Yancey Roper , drowned after swimming in a different direction. ( Read more Alabama stories. )"
322,"A bright spot in the aftermath of Hurricane Florence : A dog name Soshe will be reunited with her owner after being trapped in a flooded house in Pender , NC , for almost a week , People reports. Soshe ' s owner , stuck in another city , got in touch with the Humane Society of Missouri ' s Disaster Response Team , which was on the scene in North Carolina , asking for help , per KHOU. Twice , traveling by boat , a Humane Society team attempted to locate Soshe ' s house , but the floodwaters were too high. On the third attempt , they located the house late last month , having to paddle half a mile after their boat ' s engine broke down. They heard a dog barking inside the house. Two rescuers forced the door open and found Soshe sitting on a couch that was floating in the living room. In addition to saving Soshe , according to KHOU , the Missouri Humane Society team rescued several other dogs , chickens , and horses during its 10-day deployment. Check out video of Soshe ' s rescue. ( One woman helped save 27 animals after Florence and got busted. )"
323,"The Capitol looked a lot different Wednesday morning than it did a week earlier. As reporters arrived ahead of a House impeachment vote , they were met by hundreds of National Guard troops lined up in the Congressional Visitor Center , with some sleeping in nearby hallways. For CNN political reporter Rebecca Buck , the scene resembled the quartering of Union soldiers in the Capitol during the Civil War more than 150 years ago. "" Many are cuddling their firearms , fatigues over their heads to block light , and riot gear in neat piles , "" tweeted reporter Nathaniel Reed , per the Week. The Pentagon announced Tuesday that troops assisting Capitol security ahead of Inauguration Day would be armed. story continues below A rep for the DC National Guard says federal authorities made the request , which was approved by Secretary of the Army Ryan McCarthy , reports CNN. National Guard members have been arriving in Washington since last week ' s riot , and about 15,000 will be available in the lead-up to Joe Biden ' s inauguration amid a range of credible threats. Following claims that last week ' s rioters may have been assisted in accessing the Capitol , all members are being trained to report inappropriate behavior. Any activity that "" involves violence , civil disobedience , or a breach of peace "" may be punishable under state , federal , or military rules , according to an Army rep. ( Read more U.S. Capitol stories. )"
324,"A new study is wading into the hot debate over exactly why Easter Island ' s indigenous people declined  and already news sources are interpreting it differently. The international team of researchers come to one clear conclusion : Environmental conditions made life hard for the Rapa Nui people before Europeans ever arrived at Easter Island in 1722 , LiveScience reports. According to the study , the Rapa Nui used two of three areas on the island far less in the late 1650s and very early 1700s , possibly because one site was susceptible to droughts and another suffered from poor soil fertility. Researchers pegged those years by analyzing water absorption in obsidian flakes from Rapa Nui tools scattered around the island. story continues below "" The results of our research were really quite surprising to me , "" says co-author Thegn Ladefoged. "" Indeed , in the past , we ' ve published articles about how there was little evidence for pre-European-contact societal collapse. "" That ' s the old hot point : whether Europeans devastated the Rapa Nui with disease and slavery , or the locals had already ruined the land with over-use and possibly resorted to cannibalism , phys.org reports. Now other sources , like Science News and the Washington Post , are saying , hey , environmental conditions worsened life for the Rapa Nui but didn ' t ruin their civilization  so Europeans did that. And Ladefoged doesn ' t disagree , saying that the Rapa Nui reacted "" to regional environmental variation ... before they were devastated "" by European disease and other changes. ( Read about teeth that solve an Easter Island mystery. )"
325,"Dallas ' mayor vows Big Tex will be back "" bigger and better "" after the 52-foot statue that has towered over the Texas state fair for 60 years burned to a crisp yesterday , reports AP. It ' s not clear what happened , but officials suspect a mechanical glitch at the base started the blaze. "" Got a rather tall cowboy with all his clothes burned off , "" said one dispatcher , and jokes have been flying on Twitter and elsewhere since. "" Then there are those of us fuddy-duddies who find it hard to laugh , "" writes Lisa Falkenberg at the Houston Chronicle. No more "" Howdee , folks ! "" It ' s "" a little like losing Santa. "" Read her full piece here. ( Read more strange stuff stories. )"
326,"With a bronze plaque , a ceremony , and a warning that more will follow , Iceland on Sunday is marking the loss of its first glacier to climate change. Researchers from Iceland and the US , as well as the nation ' s prime minister and Mary Robinson , former UN Human Rights Commissioner and president of Ireland , are scheduled to attend , per phys.org. Scientists say that another 400 glaciers are at risk of suffering the fate of Okjokull , which is in the west of Iceland , by 2200. "" This will be the first monument to a glacier lost to climate change anywhere in the world , "" a US professor said last month. Saying that climate models and data can be hard to understand , she said , "" Perhaps a monument to a lost glacier is a better way to fully grasp what we now face. "" story continues below If glaciers continue to melt at this rate , CNN notes , the effects will be wide-ranging and devastating. Much of Earth ' s population could be displaced , food and water supplies will be threatened , islands will become covered as sea levels rise , and flooding could cause health crises. The plaque to be dedicated Sunday , which is titled "" Letter to the Future , "" says : "" In the next 200 years all our glaciers are expected to follow the same path. This monument is to acknowledge that we know what is happening and what needs to be done. Only you know if we did it. "" ( Greenland ' s melting glaciers could have one economic benefit. )"
327,"As the planet continues to warm , you can expect more droughts , more flooding , more powerful storms , and , apparently , more suicides. That ' s according to Stanford researchers who scoured data on 850,000 suicides in the US between 1968 and 2004 and 611,000 suicides in Mexico between 1990 and 2010. They see a link between temperature increases and increases in the suicide rate. Specifically , the suicide rate increased 0.7 % in the US and 2.1 % in Mexico when the average monthly temperature was 1 degree Celsius higher than normal. That was true across income levels regardless of whether the temperature rose in January or July , in hot or cold climates. "" It ' s sort of a brutal finding , "" study author Marshall Burke tells the Atlantic , with the Guardian describing expected burdens on wealthy countries where suicide rates are already high. story continues below Unless greenhouse-gas emissions are reduced , Burke predicts this link between suicide and temperature will result in another 14,000 to 26,000 US deaths by suicide by 2050 , a change equal to "" the estimated impact of economic recessions , "" according to the study published Monday in the journal Nature Climate Change. The link itself dates back to century-old observations of increases in suicide in summer months , but it remains little understood. As use of depressive language on Twitter was also found to increase with the temperature , Burke  who co-authored a 2013 study suggesting a similar effect on interpersonal violence  suggests "" there ' s a plausible biological linkage between temperature , thermal regulation and how the brain regulates its own emotion , "" per CNN. If a solution can be found , "" it has to be unprecedented , "" he tells the Atlantic. ( Read more suicide stories. )"
328,"A huge blaze that destroyed an apartment tower under construction in downtown Los Angeles overnight is being investigated as possible arson , the LA Times reports. Such big fires are always treated as criminal acts , a fire captain says , but "" it ' s very rare for the entire building to be engulfed at once. There may have been some foul play. "" The 1.3-million-square-foot DaVinci apartment complex broke out in flames at 1 : 30am , bursting nearby windows , melting freeway signs , and shutting down much downtown traffic. "" It looked like a bomb had just exploded , "" says another fire captain. Arson investigators were at the scene with dogs and say they plan to look over the building ' s financial records. story continues below The DaVinci plan generated controversy earlier this year for including a pedestrian bridge that would let residents walk to various attractions downtown , notes an earlier Times story. Developers admitted that the bridge would shield residents from downtown ' s considerable homeless population , but critics derided the plan for "" vilifying "" the homeless. Today the surrounding streets were filled with gawkers and stranded workers alike. One woman holding a lunch pail was only allowed to pass a police officer after explaining that her office was nearby. "" Do I still get paid if my building burned down ? "" she asked with a shrug. ( Read more Los Angeles stories. )"
329,"One of at least 22 victims killed in Tennessee flooding described her terror in a Facebook Live video moments before she was swept away. "" We ' re being flooded right now , "" Linda Almond announced in a 70-second video filmed from her son ' s home in Waverly just before 10 : 15am Saturday , per the Washington Post. The video showed high water flowing outside the home , carrying large debris along with it. "" This is scary , "" the 55-year-old Almond said. "" Really scary. "" Halfway through the video , she appeared to grow more concerned. "" Whoa , whoa , "" she said. "" I think something just hit the side of the house , "" a second person was heard saying. story continues below The home , where the South Florida native had been staying for the past several months , flooded soon after , per the Post. Almond and her son , Tommy , were able to climb onto the roof , but then it collapsed , family members tell WKRN. Almond ' s daughter , 25-year-old Victoria , tells the Post that the home "" lifted off its foundation. "" Almond and Tommy were left clutching a power line pole. Then a house came floating toward them , forcing them to let go , Victoria says. Tommy "" went down for about 45 seconds underwater and when he came back up , he couldn ' t find Mom , "" she adds. Almond ' s body was recovered Sunday. Victoria says her mother was in poor health , with a bad back. Tommy , 37 , was eventually able to reach safety. "" He was in the military and he said that flood was the scariest thing he ' s ever been through , "" says Victoria. An estimated 21 inches of rain fell in the area on Saturday , prompting floods that swept away homes , cars , and people. At least 22 people died , including 7-month-old twins. Twelve to 15 people remain missing , per the AP. Tennessee Emergency Management Agency Director Patrick Sheehan tells the outlet that he expects "" to see mostly recovery efforts at this point. "" ( Read more Tennessee stories. )"
330,"A state of emergency has been declared in San Diego County after nine wildfires scorched at least 14 square miles , with more dry winds and soaring temperatures due today. Gov. Jerry Brown issued the emergency order after the series of fires broke out yesterday , forcing thousands to flee their homes , the San Diego Union-Tribune reports. Schools and amusement parks including Legoland were forced to close as fires raged around the coastal city of Carlsbad , destroying a condo complex and damaging multiple homes , reports the AP. story continues below Military housing near Camp Pendleton was also evacuated. "" It  s like a scene from Armageddon , "" one homeowner in the area told the Los Angeles Times as smoke blotted out the sun. Drought conditions have created a very high fire risk throughout much of California , and Carlsbad ' s fire chief says this is the first time in his 27-year career he has seen blazes like this so early in the year. "" This is May , this is unbelievable. This is something we should see in October , "" he says. "" I haven ' t seen it this hot , this dry , this long in May. "" ( Read more San Diego stories. )"
331,"Anxiety over how the absence of net neutrality rules could affect things has manifested itself in California. Ars Technica reports on a new lawsuit that includes a statement from Santa Clara County Fire Chief Anthony Bowden alleging Verizon throttled the fire department ' s data services ( specifically tied to its vehicle OES 5262 , which uses a Verizon SIM card to get online ) while it was in the midst of fighting the state ' s wildfires. To make things worse , Bowden adds , "" Verizon imposed these limitations despite being informed that throttling "" was curtailing the department ' s emergency response. His declaration is an addendum to a legal challenge against the FCC filed by nearly two dozen state attorneys general and a slew of government agencies looking to overturn the repeal of net neutrality rules that went into effect in June. story continues below Ars Technica details the email back-and-forth  starting in late June and continuing as the Mendocino Complex Fire raged on  between Verizon and fire officials , including one in which a fire IT officer begs , "" Please work with us. "" Even though the fire department had an "" unlimited "" data plan , Ars Technica notes big carriers sometimes slow things when a certain amount of data is exceeded. A Verizon rep eventually convinced the department to upgrade from a monthly $ 37.99 data plan to a $ 99.99 one. In a statement to the Verge , Verizon says the throttling had "" nothing to do with net neutrality ; "" it was a "" customer support mistake. "" "" Regardless of the plan emergency responders choose , we have a practice to remove data speed restrictions when contacted in emergency situations. "" ( Read more Verizon stories. )"
332,"The earliest "" I "" storm of any hurricane season is barreling toward the US Southeast , with Florida first in its path. Fox News reports that Gov. Ron DeSantis has declared a state of emergency for all of the Florida ' s counties along the Atlantic shoreline as Hurricane Isaias makes it way from the Bahamas up north. DeSantis also sent President Trump a letter Friday requesting a "" pre-landfall emergency "" declaration , which would offer direct federal assistance beyond what Florida can provide. As of 5am ET , Isaias was deemed a Category 1 storm , with winds up to 85mph , though that could strengthen as the storm moves over warm Gulf Stream waters , per AccuWeather. story continues below A National Hurricane Center alert indicates Isaias , set to approach southeastern Florida later Saturday and into Sunday , could cause storm surges of up to 4 feet in certain parts of the state. Meanwhile , heavy rain could cause "" potentially life-threatening flash and urban flooding. "" The governors of North Carolina and Virginia also declared states of emergency , with Govs. Roy Cooper and Ralph Northam saying their respective states could see Isaias hit their coasts as early as Monday. AccuWeather notes that before Isaias , Hurricane Irene was the earliest "" I "" storm of any recorded hurricane season , forming on Aug. 7 , 2005. ( Read more Hurricane Isaias stories. )"
333,"A meteor exploded in a fireball in the Earth ' s atmosphere in December  surely a spectacular sight , but no one seems to have seen it. The blast occurred over the Bering Sea , off Russia ' s Kamchatka Peninsula , the BBC reports. The Air Force notified NASA after military satellites picked up the blast , which took place more than 16 miles from the Earth ' s surface with 10 times the energy released by the Hiroshima atomic bomb. NASA is checking with airlines to see if there were any sightings. The explosion was the biggest since the one over Chelyabinsk in Russia six years ago ; because that blast took place over a city , security and cellphone cameras captured images of it , per the Guardian. NASA said it expects a fireball as big as the December one only two or three times a century. story continues below Small objects often slam into Earth , Brandon Johnson of Brown University tells New Scientist , but can go unnoticed , especially if it happens over an ocean. "" If you go out on a clear night , you ' ll see little meteoroids burning up in the atmosphere , "" Johnson says. Asteroids roughly 15 feet in diameter to 160 feet seem to hit Earth more often than the data suggests they should. That could mean there are more small meteors arriving than are picked up by telescopes , a situation that will change as technology evolves. "" We really should try to track more bodies to smaller sizes so that we have a better understanding of the threat from these kinds of air blasts , "" Johnson says. ( In Michigan , a meteor once caused a small earthquake. )"
334,"How fast our planet turns  and , in turn , how long our day is  is not a stagnant thing. In fact , it changes every 5.9 years , according to a new study published in Nature. The Earth spins slightly faster or slower on a regular cycle , adding or subtracting milliseconds to our 24-hour day ; LiveScience uses the analogy of a figure skater opening or closing her arms to explain the phenomenon. While it might seem like a miniscule change  especially when earthquakes can basically do the same thing  scientists are stumped as to the cause. story continues below The study looked at decades ' worth of data to find the changes occurring in regular intervals , which rules out the sun ' s energy flux as the source. While the true cause is still a mystery , it must come from inside the Earth ' s core , reports Science News. Researchers also found a correlation between the changes and abrupt alterations in our planet ' s magnetic field known as "" geomagnetic jerks , "" which could help explain that mysterious behavior , too. For now , the findings will help improve the geomagnetic forecasts for mining and drilling. ( Read more Earth stories. )"
335,"Southern Kansas and Oklahoma are experiencing small , daily quakes linked with fracking that make a larger and more destructive earthquake much more likely , according to a new , unpublished federal study. The risk remains low  about a 1 in 2,500 years ' chance  but if true , it ranks the region among top-risk areas east of the Rocky Mountains , the AP reports. Those areas include Charleston , SC , and New Madrid , Missouri , which both suffered serious earthquakes during the past 200 years. "" The more small earthquakes we have , it just simply increases the odds we ' re going to have a more damaging event , "" said geophysicist William Ellsworth after presenting the study to a science association. A Kansas geological official responded with , "" We are worried about this , no question about it. "" story continues below Meanwhile , another study says that hidden geological faults in Oklahoma are ready to to burst  including ones that were just discovered and may damage vital structures , LiveScience reports. Published in the journal Geophysical Research Letters , the study located faults by looking at more than 3,600 recent earthquakes in Oklahoma. "" These faults are all in rock layers that existed when the dinosaurs were around , "" says study author Daniel McNamara. "" Some of them haven ' t been active since then. "" On the bright side , a third study shows that fewer faults in Montana and the Dakotas  also drilling "" hotbeds ""  are ready to pop , and Ellsworth says the rate of man-made quakes has actually dropped in some "" fracking states , "" like Arkansas and Ohio. ( Is the eastern US also due for a "" big one "" ? )"
336,"As Californians worry that their state might be next , officials are reassuring them that the specific combination of earthquake , tsunami , and nuclear crisis that hit Japan is very unlikely there. Though one of the state  s two nuclear power plants was only built to withstand a 7.0 quake and the other a 7.5 , experts believe the highest possible quake at nearby faultlines would be in the low 7s , not the 8.9 that occurred in Japan , the Los Angeles Times reports. story continues below Additionally , because there is no offshore subduction zone ( an area where one plate slides under a second ) , a tsunami as large as the one that hit Japan is also unlikely. Even if a smaller tsunami hits , the Diablo Canyon plant is 85 feet above sea level on a bluff , and the San Onofre plant is protected by a 30-foot-high tsunami wall.  Both plants have advanced cooling systems that can run even if power is lost. And , says a Southern California Edison rep , "" We will comb through the details of [ Japan  s ] emergency very carefully and whatever lessons can and should be applied here will be noted.  ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
337,"A popular Northern California fishing hole went dry overnight last weekend , leaving residents scratching their heads and demanding answers , CBS Sacramento reports. Walker Lake , also known as Mountain Meadows Reservoir , is owned by the Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Company , which uses it for hydroelectric power. A spokesperson for PG&E tells the Sacramento Bee that with California into year four of its massive drought , the reservoir has been under its minimum water requirement for weeks. It  s a very flat , very shallow reservoir , "" he says. "" At some point it was going to go dry. "" story continues below But residents aren ' t buying it. They say people were fishing on the lake last Saturday ; the next morning , thousands of fish lay dead and dying on the dry lake bed , CBS reports. This makes me feel like they didn  t want to do a fish rescue and that it was easier to open that sucker up Saturday night ,  lifelong resident Eddie Bauer says. PG&E officials deny anyone opened anything up ; they say the lake simply ran out of water. Reservoirs all over the state are facing a similar fate. We are reliant upon rainfall to fill those lakes of course , and until we get more rain we  re not likely to see any appreciable increase in the reservoir levels ,  a Department of Water Resources spokesperson tells CBS. ( The drought is so bad that parts of the state are sinking fast. )"
338,"The tsunami that killed hundreds , possibly thousands of people after an earthquake in Indonesia on Friday was much bigger and more devastating than would normally be expected after that kind of quake , scientists say. "" We expected it might cause a tsunami , just not one that big , "" geophysicist Jason Patton tells the New York Times. Tsunamis like the 18-foot monster wave that wrecked cities on Sulawesi island are usually caused by "" megathrust "" earthquakes that move land vertically , not "" strike-slip "" quakes like the 7.5-magnitude one Friday , which moved the earth horizontally , Patton says. The Sulawesi event was , however , localized , unlike the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. story continues below It may have been the case , Patton says , that massive undersea landslides created the tsunami , or that the narrow bay that Palu sits at the end of concentrated the wave ' s power. Indonesian authorities have been strongly criticized for apparently canceling the tsunami alert too early , though expert Adam Switzer at the Earth Observatory of Singapore tells the AP that this is unfair. "" What it shows is that the tsunami models we have now are too simplistic , "" he says. "" They don ' t take into account multiple events , multiple quakes within a short period of time. They don ' t take into account submarine landslides. "" The official death toll now stands at 844 , though authorities , who have been preparing mass graves , have been unable to access some hard-hit areas , the Guardian reports. ( Read more tsunami stories. )"
339,"Illinois farmers gathered to tell their tales of woe Thursday at  of all places  The Happy Spot. With heavy rains and record floods forcing them to leave millions of acres unseeded , corn farmers gathered with sellers of equipment , chemicals , and seed at the Deer Grove restaurant to swap stories over beer and fried chicken , Reuters reports. "" Everybody  s so down in the dumps , "" says farmer James McCune , who organized the so-called "" Prevent Plant Party "" after leaving 85 % of his corn acres unplanted. Other attendees weren ' t much happier. Greg McKnight , who sells seed and 18-wheeler trucks for farmers to transport grain , put it in stark terms. story continues below "" Since all this rain began , it ' s like shutting the light switch off , "" he says. "" My phone has quit ringing on sales. "" The federal government is trying to help out with a $ 16 billion aid package , but that ' s for farmers hurt by the trade war with China. President Trump has signed a $ 19 billion disaster relief bill that allots over $ 3 billion to make up for lost crops , but HuffPo notes that certain Trump policies  like his plan to lower vehicle emission standards  are likely to exacerbate weather linked to climate change. "" Overall , it ' s climate change ,  an atmospheric scientist tells National Geographic of the flooding. "" We expect an increase in total precipitation in the Midwest , especially in winter and spring , with more coming as larger events. "" ( Read more farmers stories. )"
340,"Forget seeing Russia from Alaska : Scientists have found a trove of tracks left behind by dinosaurs that once roamed our northernmost state  and some of them are pretty big. A paleontology team discovered a "" world-class "" trail in the northeast corner of Denali National Park that was littered with thousands of footprints from hadrosaurs ( more commonly known as duck-billed dinosaurs ) of all ages , reports LiveScience. We had mom , dad , big brother , big sister , and little babies all running around together , "" says a paleontologist of the tracks , which ranged in length from 5 inches to 2 feet. "" Denali was a family destination for millions of years , and now we ' ve got the fossil evidence for it. This is definitely one of the great track sites of the world. "" story continues below The discovery , published in the June issue of the journal Geology , seems to back up scientists  claims that the creature often referred to as the "" buffalo of dinosaurs , "" for its herd mentality , stomped its way around the polar regions during the Late Cretaceous Period about 70 million years ago. It  s not the first time there  s been a dino find in Denali : The National Park Service says the first fossil was unearthed in the park by a college student in 2005 , and since then , evidence has been found of beaked ceratopsians , flying pterosaurs , and the bizarrely shaped therizinosaurs. But the scope of this find was particularly exciting for the team. "" On one of the last nights , I woke up to an earthquake in the park , "" the lead scientist says. "" For the first time in my life , I wasn  t worried about a big rock [ hitting me ] . I was worried about my track site sliding down the mountain. "" ( Read more dinosaurs stories. )"
341,"Face masks might be here to stay at the Salton Sea , where breathing was already dangerous. Imperial County lives with a haze over it that includes exhaust fumes , factory emissions , pesticide plumes , and vaporized dust that rises from California ' s largest lake. There ' s so much lithium in the water that General Motors plans to extract it to use in batteries for electric cars , per Autoweek. Miriam Jurez , who lives in Salton City , never opens a window of her house , the Guardian reports. She puts towels on the floor at the doors. "" We ' re probably going to keep our masks on , even after the pandemic , "" she said , "" to wear against the dust. "" There ' s a stench in the air , too. Noem Vzquez , who operates a day care in her home , puts inhalers all over the house. Five of the 10 children she cares for have asthma ; hospitalization rates for children with asthma in the area are twice the average for California. Adult asthma rates also are high. story continues below The saltwater lake was once a California gem , and its resorts a destination for celebrities including Frank Sinatra and the Beach Boys. The desert oasis was created in 1905 , when the Colorado River topped an irrigation canal and filled a basin , per the Guardian. For decades , however , the water level has been falling , uncovering a shoreline holding a powdery arsenic , selenium , and DDT. That cocktail is absorbed by the atmosphere. The water has become saltier as the lake shrinks , allowing for noxious algal blooms and resulting in the deaths of scores of fish. Tens of thousands of migratory birds also have died , starved , or been poisoned. Climate change , drought , and Southern California ' s need for water are combining to make the Salton Sea area progressively less livable. By 2030 , researchers say , the water level could fall to one-fourth of what it is now. "" All that dust that gets exposed would mean even more breathing problems and more allergies and asthma for the people who live here , "" an environmental epidemiologist said. ( Read more Salton Sea stories. )"
342,"For Robert Schmittner , it was a long time coming. "" I didn ' t rest for 14 years , "" the diver tells Mexico News Daily. Schmittner is the director of exploration for the Great Maya Aquifer Project , which on Jan. 10 discovered the longest underwater cave on Earth. Divers for the project made the discovery by confirming something that  as per the Telegraph  had been long suspected : the 163-mile-long Sac Actun system and 83-mile-long Dos Ojos system of Mexico ' s Yucatan Peninsula are actually connected. Sac Actun ' s underwater cave system now absorbs Dos Ojos , becoming the record-setting , 216-mile-long Sac Actun system , Reuters reports. According to National Geographic , it ' s now 49 miles longer than the previous record holder and could get even bigger as divers continue to seek connections to other flooded cave systems in the area. story continues below"
343,"Cambodia thought it had a handle on its scarcity of iodine , an element critical for humans ( and one not made naturally by the body ) to make thyroid hormone. The country had long struggled with the lack of iodine in its soil , which at one point in the late 1990s resulted in goiters in 17 % of its population , per UNICEF. The solution : iodizing table salt , a cheap way to boost citizens ' iodine intake. But as the New York Times reports , national efforts to iodize table salt started disintegrating in 2010 , and in 2011 a major event happened more than 2,600 miles away that had unexpected consequences for the country ' s iodine deficiency dilemma : the Japanese earthquake and tsunami , which caused once-affordable iodine to spike in price globally and decimate specifically Cambodia ' s salt industry. story continues below The iodizing initiative had already started to erode before 2011 , as the government and salt producers let things fall through the cracks. After the tsunami , things worsened : There was already a dearth of iodine due to the 2008 recession , and the natural disaster in Japan , which produces about a third of the world ' s iodine , exacerbated it. Add cheaper , non-iodized Vietnamese salt in , as well as the fact that iodine was being scooped up by higher-paying parties such as pharmaceutical firms , and iodized salt in Cambodia fell by the wayside. Now suffering the effects : the country ' s kids , 2,300 of whom , when tested in 2014 , showed a 30 % drop of iodine levels in urine compared to 2011. Iodine Global Network Director Jonathan Gorstein tells the Times efforts must be taken anew to halt the deficiency and the "" pattern in which success leads to backsliding. "" ( Iodine deficiency in pregnancy can lower a baby ' s IQ. )"
344,"Just weeks ago , the Wall Street Journal warned of the dangers of lithium batteries  and lo and behold , the batteries have taken center stage in a string of Boeing 787 mishaps. Leaky batteries are a significant fire risk , as emphasized in a blaze that lasted 40 minutes in Boston and a battery leak that prompted an emergency landing in Japan. The highly corrosive battery fluid can wreak havoc on wiring and other components , the AP reports. story continues below That ' s particularly worrying given the Dreamliner ' s heavy dependence on electrical systems. And if the electrolyte fluid spreads , it can spark fires , cause short-circuiting , and potentially rattle the electrical signals pilots need to fly the plane , experts say. It also poses a threat to the plane ' s structure. The 787 uses "" the same batteries that are in the electric cars , and they are running into the same problems with the 787 as the problems that have shown up in electric cars , "" says an engineer. But even with the planes currently grounded , Boeing says it remains "" confident , "" with the Dreamliner ' s chief engineer noting that the batteries had no internal faults over 1.3 million hours of total operation. ( Read more lithium ion batteries stories. )"
345,"The remote community of York Landing , Manitoba , is on high alert after reports that it is now the center of the manhunt for two fugitive teen murder suspects. Members of the Bear Clan Patrol , a Winnipeg-based indigenous volunteer group that sent members to the area to provide extra security , say they spotted Kam McLeod , 19 , and Bryer Schmegelsky , 18 , scavenging for food in a dump near the town , the Guardian reports. The teens were previously thought to be near Gillam , another remote northern Manitoba town. York Landing is around 50 miles from Gillam as the crow flies , according to the Guardian , though non-crows would face a journey of several hours over difficult roads , or a trek through extremely inhospitable terrain. The teens are suspects in three murders in northern British Columbia. story continues below Bear Clan Patrol member Travis Bighetty tells the CBC that he and his partner spotted two "" tall , slender individuals "" moving very quickly near the landfill site Sunday. "" They fit the description of what was given in the RCMP report , "" Bighetty says. "" It didn ' t click right away , it took a few moments. "" Within 30 minutes of reporting the sighting , he says , numerous Mounties began arriving by air. "" It ' s a surreal moment right now knowing they could be in this small , isolated community , "" Bighetty says. "" The area is very dense with forest , "" he says. "" It could be 20 yards in the woods  you wouldn ' t be able to see them. "" The town has fewer than 500 people. Police say they have asked residents to park their vehicles and stay inside with their doors locked. "" It ' s scary , it ' s scary , "" says resident Judy Sinclair. "" I pray this is all over tonight. "" ( Canada ' s military has joined the search. )"
346,"If there ' s an upside to the ongoing and dangerous eruption of Hawaii ' s Kilauea volcano , it ' s perhaps plenty of new land. Lava flowing from fissures on the Big Island has expanded the coastline by some 700 acres , the equivalent of more than 500 football fields , reports CBS News. At least one new peninsula is believed to have formed near the town of Kapoho in the last few days. Per the Washington Post , a tiny island roughly 20 feet by 30 feet materialized Thursday , perhaps as a result of underwater pressure pushing a submarine lava flow to the surface. The land mass has since joined up with the rest of the Big Island , which "" continues to grow larger and larger every day , "" per Hawaii News Now. story continues below Though "" it may very well not survive long enough to support life , "" University of Hawaii volcanologist Michael Garcia expects the expanded coastline to remain if the eruption continues for some time , per the Post. Lava has now covered 12.5 square miles of the island and destroyed 706 homes , per CNN and CBS , and the threat continues. A "" collapse explosion event , "" which released energy equivalent to that of a 5.3 magnitude earthquake , that struck at Kilauea ' s summit around 1 : 45am Wednesday was followed by an increase in lava flowing from the vent known as Fissure 8. It "" produced a small overflow threatening homes on Nohea street and additional overflows downstream on both sides of the channel , "" according to the US Geological Survey. ( Read more Hawaii stories. )"
347,"Lead House impeachment manager Adam Schiff said during the second day of President Trump ' s impeachment trial that former White House national security adviser John Bolton should be heard from  but he and other Democrats poured cold water on the idea of a "" witness swap "" in which Hunter Biden would also testify. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said the idea was "" off the table , "" the New York Times reports. Joe Biden also rejected the idea , saying he wanted "" no part "" of it. "" We ' re not going to turn it into a farce , into some kind of political theater , "" he said. More : White House didn ' t file to dismiss . President Trump denounced the Democratic case during a flood of tweets Wednesday and later told Fox he would like to see an "" acquittal fairly quickly. "" But the White House decided against filing a motion to dismiss the charges , reports the Washington Post. Republican leaders have warned the administration that such a move would not have majority support so early in the trial. . President Trump denounced the Democratic case during a flood of tweets Wednesday and later told Fox he would like to see an "" acquittal fairly quickly. "" But the White House decided against filing a motion to dismiss the charges , reports the Washington Post. Republican leaders have warned the administration that such a move would not have majority support so early in the trial. Bolton "" knows my thoughts. "" Bolton has said he will testify if subpoenaed , but Trump told reporters in Switzerland Wednesday that Bolton couldn ' t testify because he "" knows my thoughts on certain people and other governments , war and peace and different things  that ' s a national security problem. "" Witnesses said Bolton described the alleged White House pressure on Ukraine , which led to Trump ' s impeachment , as like a "" drug deal. "" story continues below "" I didn ' t hear anything new. "" The Guardian reports that GOP senators  who repeatedly voted Tuesday against calling new witnesses  complained that no fresh evidence against Trump has been presented. "" I didn ' t hear anything new today , "" said Sen. Pat Toomey. The Guardian reports that GOP senators  who repeatedly voted Tuesday against calling new witnesses  complained that no fresh evidence against Trump has been presented. "" I didn ' t hear anything new today , "" said Sen. Pat Toomey. GOP voters According to a FiveThirtyEight poll , 54 % of Americans now support removing Trump from office , and they are not split entirely along party lines. Some 18 % of Republicans support removal , while 17 % of Democrats want to dismiss the charges , the poll found. But the partisan divide is widening on the witness question : The proportion of Republicans who oppose calling new witnesses has grown from 41 % to 48 % over the last month. "" Increasingly , rank-and-file Republicans seem to be just fine with a rapid trial that includes no new evidence or testimony , "" the pollsters say. According to a FiveThirtyEight poll , 54 % of Americans now support removing Trump from office , and they are not split entirely along party lines. Some 18 % of Republicans support removal , while 17 % of Democrats want to dismiss the charges , the poll found. But the partisan divide is widening on the witness question : The proportion of Republicans who oppose calling new witnesses has grown from 41 % to 48 % over the last month. "" Increasingly , rank-and-file Republicans seem to be just fine with a rapid trial that includes no new evidence or testimony , "" the pollsters say. Senators are growing weary . The AP reports that impeachment fatigue appears to have set in already among "" bored and weary "" senators , who are not allowed to talk , work on other matters , or drink anything except water and milk in the chamber during proceedings. At least one of them , Democratic Sen. Mark Warner , appeared to take a nap soon after Schiff began talking. "" It was a long day and the House managers did a lot of repeating the same material , "" GOP Sen. Mike Rounds told reporters. "" I  ve got 20 pages of notes , and towards the end , we were basically hearing the same thing over again. It was a diatribe.  . The AP reports that impeachment fatigue appears to have set in already among "" bored and weary "" senators , who are not allowed to talk , work on other matters , or drink anything except water and milk in the chamber during proceedings. At least one of them , Democratic Sen. Mark Warner , appeared to take a nap soon after Schiff began talking. "" It was a long day and the House managers did a lot of repeating the same material , "" GOP Sen. Mike Rounds told reporters. "" I  ve got 20 pages of notes , and towards the end , we were basically hearing the same thing over again. It was a diatribe.  What to expect on Thursday. Schiff said Day 3 of the impeachment trial , which will start around 1pm , will focus on the president ' s alleged abuse of power , which is the first article of impeachment , the Hill reports. "" Tomorrow , we will go through the law , the Constitution , and the facts as they apply to Article I , "" he said Wednesday night "" We  ve introduced the case , we have gone through the chronology and tomorrow we will apply the facts to the law as it pertains to the president  s abuse of power. "" ( Read more Trump trial stories. )"
348,"As more than 1,000 mourners remembered Gabby Petito at a service on Sunday , police announced plans to scale back their search efforts for fiance Brian Laundrie , a person of interest in the 22-year-old ' s disappearance and death. "" The FBI is now leading the search. I  m told it will be scaled back and targeted based on intelligence , "" a rep for the police department in Laundrie ' s hometown of North Port , Fla. , tells Fox News. Two FBI agents did visit the Laundrie family home Sunday morning asking for personal items belonging to him for the purposes of DNA matching , the family ' s lawyer says , adding that Laundrie ' s parents cooperated. story continues below Authorities have been searching for Laundrie in the Carlton Reserve , a Florida nature preserve Laundrie frequented , but an experienced outdoorsman tells Fox News that he doubts they ' ll find Laundrie there. "" There  s no surviving out here , I don  t know how to say it , "" for more than a few days , he says. Especially because torrential rainfall has flooded the area since Laundrie was reported missing Sept. 17. But he adds that he also doubts Laundrie died out there , because he hasn ' t seen buzzards , which would be circling a body if there was one. Petito ' s best friend disagrees , telling People that Laundrie has previously spent months in the wilderness by himself. Joining the search for Laundrie is a notable name , Yahoo News reports : Dog the Bounty Hunter. ( Read more Gabby Petito stories. )"
349,"Hurricane Michael is now an "" extremely dangerous "" Category 4 storm with maximum sustained winds of 130mph and could become even stronger before it makes landfall in Florida ' s Panhandle or Big Bend area on Wednesday , the National Hurricane Center warns. The center says devastating storm surges of up to 13 feet are expected to hit parts of Florida ' s Gulf Coast , and flash-flooding from heavy rains could hit as far north as Virginia , the Pensacola Journal reports. The storm will be the strongest to hit the US mainland so far this year , and could be the most devastating the Panhandle region has seen in decades , reports the New York Times. Tens of thousands have been ordered to evacuate amid emergency declarations in parts of Florida , Alabama , and Georgia. story continues below "" I guess it ' s the worst case scenario. I don ' t think anyone would have experienced this in the Panhandle , "" meteorologist Ryan Maue tells the AP. "" This is going to have structure damaging winds along the coast and hurricane force winds inland. "" Officials say some 375,000 people along the Gulf Coast have been told to evacuate. The orders are mandatory in some places , though many people have apparently decided to stay put. Forecasters say that after it makes landfall in Florida on Wednesday afternoon , Michael is expected to move over Georgia and the Carolinas , dumping yet more rain on areas hit hard by Hurricane Florence before it moves offshore again Friday. ( This county has told a Weather Channel meteorologist they don ' t want to see him. )"
350,"North Korea apparently has a "" miracle "" drug that cures cancer , but very little methamphetamine. In an attempt to curb defections , illegal phone calls , human trafficking , and drug smuggling , "" border control has become a lot tighter , making methamphetamine harder to get , "" a source tells the Daily NK. "" In the past , you could get meth in provincial black markets , but these days this has become more challenging , so people are seeking out places where it  s [ still ] being made. "" Some in Hyesan , on North Korea ' s border with China , are known to travel 360 miles round trip on foot through the mountains to Hamhung just to get their kick. As a result , the source says government officials are now patrolling the streets of Hamhung and other meth-producing cities like Sunchon. story continues below That  s an interesting change of pace from two years ago when North Korea claimed "" the illegal use , trafficking , and production of drugs which reduce human beings into mental cripples do not exist , "" per the Guardian. Despite the strict language , North Korea has been accused of profiting from the drug trade , and officials are said to appreciate a gift of the drug "" ice. "" Growing addictions appear to be linked to the country ' s faltering medical system ; most people are forced to pay for medication and instead turn to crystal meth and opium. One man in North Korea says he began using opium to treat an inflammation in the gallbladder. Now , "" in difficult times like this , I can ' t seem to get by without my drugs , "" he says. "" I can ' t live with my head clear. "" ( A drought in the country is raising fears of food shortages. )"
351,"A weakened Tropical Storm Elsa is making its way toward Georgia after making landfall in Florida  and while storm surge is still a worry , officials say the storm has not caused any deaths or major damage. Elsa made landfall in Taylor County , southeast of Tallahassee , around 11am with maximum sustained winds of 65mph , the New York Times reports. Residents of the lightly populated area said the flooding was no worse than is usually seen after heavy rain. "" Clearly , this could have been worse , "" said Gov. Ron DeSantis , per the AP. He warned that downed power lines and other hazards can cause deaths after a storm passed. "" Be very careful when you ' re working to clear debris , "" DeSantis said. story continues below Addressing new Florida residents , DeSantis said , "" If this is your first rodeo , just please heed the warnings , "" per the Tallahassee Democrat. Tornado watches are in place for much of northeastern Florida until 8pm and around 21,000 residents are without power , reports the Sun Sentinel. Tropical storm conditions are expected "" along the Georgia coast by late today or tonight and along the South Carolina coast tonight and early Thursday , "" with storm conditions possible in the mid-Atlantic region and northeastern states by Thursday night and Friday , the National Hurricane Center said in a 2pm update. ( Read more tropical storms stories. )"
352,"A natural gas well is burning uncontrollably off the coast of Louisiana today , after a gas blowout caught fire yesterday , the AP reports. All 44 workers aboard evacuated when the gas leak started earlier in the day , and no one was aboard the well when it ignited at around 10 : 50pm local time , NBC News reports. It ' s unclear when or how the fire will be extinguished ; personnel from Wild Well Inc. were called in last night , but determined that it wasn ' t safe enough to go within 200 feet of the well. story continues below A special firefighting boat has now been dispatched , a spokesman for the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said. The bureau also reported seeing "" a light sheen "" on the water. Walter Oil &amp; Gas Corp. were in the process of building a "" sidetrack well "" at the site when the blowout hit , the New Orleans Times-Picayune reports. Local officials say they ' re watching the well closely "" because if there is a natural gas cloud that continues to flow , then you run the risk of an explosion. "" But , says a local parish president , "" nothing that I have received to date has caused me to panic in any way or form. This is not going to be another BP oil spill. "" ( Read more Louisiana stories. )"
353,""" When I hear the conventional high C of a soprano , I want to say , ' Show us what else you ' ve got , ' "" says a British composer whose new opera is currently being performed at the Metropolitan Opera. Soprano Audrey Luna did just that. The New York Times reports she is the only singer on record in the Met ' s 137-year history to hit the A above high C , something she does twice during Thomas Ads ' The Exterminating Angel , the story of a high-society dinner party whose guests are oddly unable to leave. The Times calls hitting the note "" a combination of genetic gifts , rigorous training and psychological discipline over two fragile vocal cords. "" story continues below Luna  a Grammy winner , notes the Sacramento Bee  has sung a high G previously at the Met. She was recruited by Ads for the part , says she ' s practiced as high as the C above high C , so she felt confident she was capable of hitting the note. And she has to hit it in a somewhat incredible way : It ' s the very first note she sings , as she ' s coming on stage ; she sings it once more shortly after. "" It ' s a moment of arrival , "" says Ads. "" It had to be on this note. "" New York Classical Review offered its take on Luna ' s performance , writing she "" blazed high. "" Head to the Times to hear audio of the note. ( Read more opera stories. )"
354,"On Sunday , Monday , and Tuesday , the village of Lytton , British Columbia , broke records for the hottest temperature ever recorded in Canada. By Wednesday , it was on fire. Mayor Joe Polderman says he signed an evacuation order around 6pm Wednesday as fire tore through the village of around 250 residents. "" It ' s dire. The whole town is on fire , "" Polderman tells the CBC. "" It took , like , a whole 15 minutes from the first sign of smoke to , all of a sudden , there being fire everywhere. "" Residents were forced to flee , leaving livestock , pets , and treasured possessions behind. story continues below Polderman tells CTV that he drove to town one more time after issuing the order and was horrified by what he saw. "" The structures were engulfed , there was smoke everywhere , the wires were down , "" he says. The mayor says he can ' t confirm that all residents escaped. Temperatures in the village 160 miles northeast of Vancouver hit 121 on Wednesday  hotter than the hottest temperature ever recorded in Las Vegas. The British Columbia Wildfire Service says resources are being sent to deal with the Lytton blaze. The service says the hot , dry , and windy conditions have created extreme fire danger in the region. ( The heat wave has been blamed for hundreds of deaths in the province. )"
355,"Advertisers are once again deserting Tucker Carlson ' s show. The latest exodus follows the Fox host ' s attacks on the Black Lives Matter movement , the Los Angeles Times reports. He had said it is "" soulless "" and "" craven "" for companies and celebrities to support the movement and went after Sesame Street for its take on racism in an educational special. "" This may be a lot of things , this moment we are living through , "" he said Monday. "" But it is definitely not about black lives and remember that when they come for you , and at this rate , they will. "" Fox later said the "" they "" he was referring to are Democratic politicians. Companies including Smile Direct Club , Papa John ' s , and T-Mobile said this week that they will no longer advertise on Tucker Carlson Tonight , the Verge reports. story continues below "" We aren  t running ads on that show and we won  t be running ads on that show in the future. Bye-bye , Tucker Carlson ! "" tweeted T-Mobile CEO Mike Sievert ; the company last ran ads on the show in early May. Advertising on Carlson ' s show never fully recovered from previous boycotts , including one launched in 2018 after he said immigrants were making America "" dirtier , "" reports Media Matters. Advertisers also departed last year after he declared that white supremacy a "" hoax. "" Newsweek reports that Carlson fans started using the #IStandWithTucker hashtag this week to share messages of support on Twitter , only to be drowned out by a flood of tweets from K-pop fans who used the hashtag for unrelated messages. ( Read more Tucker Carlson stories. )"
356,""" We broke the record , "" Cal Fire Deputy Chief Scott McLean says of the massive Mendocino Complex Fire in Northern California. "" That ' s one of those records you don ' t want to see. "" The blaze  made up of the twin Ranch and River fires about 100 miles north of San Francisco  has now grown to around 443 square miles , making it the biggest wildfire in the state ' s modern history , the Los Angeles Times reports. The previous record was set late last year , when the Thomas Fire burned around 440 square miles in Ventura and Santa Barbara counties. Cal Fire says the Mendocino blaze , still only 30 % contained , has destroyed more than 140 structures and could be a threat to thousands more , reports USA Today. story continues below The fire , which is burning on three sides of Clear Lake , started 11 days ago and has caused evacuations in Mendocino , Lake , and Colusa counties. The blaze "" is extremely fast , extremely aggressive , extremely dangerous , "" McLean says. "" Look how big it got , just in a matter of days. ... Look how fast this Mendocino Complex went up in ranking. That doesn ' t happen. That just doesn ' t happen. "" The blaze is just one of 18 burning across close to 900 square miles in the state. Some 14,000 firefighters , including inmate volunteers , are battling the blazes , cutting fire lines in some places and attacking the fire directly in others , the AP reports. ( President Trump has made "" mind-boggling "" claims about the fires. )"
357,"A 6.4-magnitude earthquake leveled multiple buildings in Taiwan , killing at least two people , CNN reports. According to the AP , the quake hit around 4am local time on Saturday in southern Taiwan. The confirmed casualties are a 10-day-old girl and a 40-year-old man , both in the city of Tainan. More than 220 people have been rescued in Tainan , and 115 people have been hospitalized. At least four buildings collapsed in Taiwan ' s oldest city , which has a population of 2 million , the BBC reports. One of collapsed buildings was a 17-story apartment building , according to Reuters. An estimated 240 people lived in the building. story continues below More than 100 rescuers were on the scene of the collapsed apartment building. They were using ladders , cranes , and cherry-pickers to pull people to safety. The earthquake occurred only 6 miles below the surface. Taiwan ' s capital of Taipei on the far side of the island didn ' t suffer any obvious damage. More than 2,300 people were killed when a 7.6-magnitude earthquake hit the country in 1999. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
358,"An Ohio teen who tied his parents ' door shut and set his house on fire has been spared the maximum sentence after pleading guilty to arson and attempted murder. Mitchell Simon , who was 16 when he tried to kill his parents last fall after they disciplined him for skipping band practice and making inappropriate posts on Facebook , will serve nine years in prison , followed by five years of probation , the New York Daily News reports. His parents told the judge they didn ' t want their son sent to prison and they don ' t believe he belongs there. story continues below Mitchell ' s father  who broke an ankle when he jumped out a second-story window to escape the blaze  said he feared his son would be killed or sexually assaulted in prison , reports the Cincinnati Enquirer. "" I feel like there ' s two hats I ' m wearing today  a parent and a victim , "" he said. "" It ' s been very confusing to me these past seven months as to which one I should be wearing. "" A psychiatrist testified that the teen , who faced a maximum of 33 years , had made progress in therapy but he couldn ' t guarantee he wouldn ' t try to harm his parents again if he was set free. The judge said it was particularly troubling that the teen had planned the fire in his journal , writing that he wanted his mother to "" burn in hell. "" ( In Virginia , another teen boy has pleaded guilty to killing his parents because they took his iPod away. )"
359,"Postal workers have a bit of a problem : Their trucks are catching fire. And not just a few of them. At least 417 USPS mail trucks  the classic ones with right-side driving to enable quick delivery  have been damaged or scorched by fire since 2014 , Vice reports. Engineers brought in to investigate found 125 trucks too burned to reveal the cause of the blaze , while the other 282 were caused by various problems. They happened morning and afternoon , in hot and cold weather , in rural and city areas , and originated in fuel pumps , dashboards , and battery compartments , per investigative documents. A likely cause , then ? The trucks are just too old and run down. story continues below After all , the Northrop Grumman-made trucks were bought between 1987 and 1994 , per a 2015 USPS presentation  which puts them well past their estimated lifespan of 24 years. Sadly the fires coincide with a budget crisis created by The Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006 , which required the USPS to allocate $ 72 billion for 75 years to pay for worker healthcare costs , per the Drive. That ' s helped put the USPS billions of dollars in the red , on the verge of financial ruin , and unable to replace aging trucks. As a postal-carrier union newsletter put it in 2015 : "" This is a very dangerous situation. "" ( Read more post office stories. )"
360,"That Yellowstone has a big blob of molten rock lurking beneath it isn ' t news to scientists. A new analysis , however , shows that this blob is more than twice as big as they originally thought , reports Nature. Figure about 50 miles long , 20 miles wide , and shaped like a "" dog ' s knobby chew toy , "" says LiveScience. The magma reservoir lies a few miles beneath the surface and is responsible for the park ' s geysers and hot springs. I don  t know of any other magma body that  s been imaged that  s that big ,  says a geophysicist at the University of Utah. story continues below So does this raise fears about a giant volcanic eruption , perhaps something on the scale of those that created the park eons ago ? Not so much. "" The pervasive hazard in Yellowstone is earthquakes , "" says the Utah researcher. "" They are the killer events. "" For the record , the probability of a quake magnitude-7 or greater is 0.125 % , vs 0.00014 % for a massive eruption. ( Click to read about another newly discovered hot zone , this one much further afield. )"
361,"There ' s naturally occurring arsenic in rice , and researchers have identified a method of cooking it that will get rid of the majority of it. In a paper published in Science of the Total Environment , researchers with the University of Sheffield ' s Institute for Sustainable Food tested a number of "" home friendly cooking treatments "" and say they were able to cut the naturally occurring arsenic in brown rice by 54 % , and in white rice by 73 %  all without also sacrificing the micronutrients found in rice. The way to go ? The "" parboiling with absorption method , "" or PBA. It ' s a somewhat complicated way of describing an easy process : Rice should be parboiled in already boiling water for 5 minutes. That water should then be discarded. Refill the pot with water and cook on a lower heat until the water is absorbed. story continues below The finding comes on the heels of an earlier study from the Institute for Sustainable Food that found 28 of 55 rice samples available for purchase in the UK had levels of arsenic that were higher than what European Commission regulations deem safe for infants or young children. In a press release , lead researcher Dr. Manoj Menon calls the current study "" excellent news ... for rice consumers. "" While previous research has shown that cooking rice in excess water can strip out some of the arsenic found in the outer bran layer , nutrients are also removed. Not so in this case. "" We highly recommend this method while preparing rice for infants and children as they are highly vulnerable to arsenic exposure risks. "" As for why there ' s so much arsenic in rice in the first place , Science Alert explains it ' s largely because rice is grown in flooded fields , which enables it to soak up more of the arsenic that ' s naturally found in soil. ( Read more discoveries stories. )"
362,"Mike Rogers dropped a dire prediction this morning , contending that the Islamic State militants currently rampaging through Iraq "" are one plane ticket away from US shores "" and that an attack "" is a very real threat. "" Continued the House Intelligence Committee chair : "" There  s no mulligans in foreign policy. We need to regroup. "" John McCain also chimed in , hours after a 6.1-magnitude earthquake rolled through Napa County , trotting out its inevitability as a contrast for the Islamic State : "" The president has to understand that America must lead and , when America hasn  t , a lot of bad things happen , "" said McCain , as per Politico. "" This is not like the earthquake in San Francisco. All of this could have been avoided , like leaving a residual behind force in Iraq , and obviously the challenge is now much greater than it would have been. "" They led a bevy of politicians discussing the militants on the Sunday talk shows : story continues below Lindsey Graham : "" It ' s time now to assume the worst about these guys rather than underestimating them  they ' re not the JV team anymore. They ' re the most prominent terrorist organization in the world , but they ' re not the only one. They ' re in competition with the other jihadist groups , and the gold medal will be awarded to the group that can hit America. "" "" It ' s time now to assume the worst about these guys rather than underestimating them  they ' re not the JV team anymore. They ' re the most prominent terrorist organization in the world , but they ' re not the only one. They ' re in competition with the other jihadist groups , and the gold medal will be awarded to the group that can hit America. "" Paul Ryan : What I want to hear from our commander in chief is that he has a strategy to finish ISIS off , to defeat ISIS. Let ' s not forget that there are reportedly thousands of terrorists with foreign passports. If we don ' t deal with this threat now thoroughly and convincingly , it ' s going to come home to roost. What I want to hear from our commander in chief is that he has a strategy to finish ISIS off , to defeat ISIS. Let ' s not forget that there are reportedly thousands of terrorists with foreign passports. If we don ' t deal with this threat now thoroughly and convincingly , it ' s going to come home to roost. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Mike McCaul : The Islamic State "" would love more than nothing else to hit the United States of America. They are intent on hitting the West. And there are external operations , I believe , on the way. "" The Islamic State "" would love more than nothing else to hit the United States of America. They are intent on hitting the West. And there are external operations , I believe , on the way. "" Kelly Ayotte ( senator from James Foley ' s native New Hampshire ) : "" What I want from [ President Barack Obama ] is a strategy to defeat ISIS. That ' s what I think we need to work together on , and he needs to lead this , because the containment aspect of it is not going to defeat them. And we ' re going to have to defeat them because of the threat that they ... present to us. "" ( Read more John McCain stories. )"
363,"Forget The Big One  and start calling it The Even Bigger One  : Recent reports suggest that the long-overdue ( and big  ) rupture predicted along California  s San Andreas fault could be much worse than previously thought , and significantly stronger than the last major earthquake. Specifically , it could be as strong as 8.1 and as long as 340 miles  the full length of the fault from Monterey County to the Salton Sea , the Los Angeles Times reports. story continues below The last major rupture along the San Andreas , in 1857 , measured an estimated 7.9 and ruptured 200 miles of the fault ; a quake like the one described above would release twice the energy of the 1857 rupture. Until recently , experts thought one portion of the southern part of the fault would stay dormant for another 100 years or more , but an August report indicates that portion is also overdue for a big quake , meaning the next earthquake could be sooner than later ,  says one expert. For more on "" The Big One , "" click here. ( Read more California earthquake stories. )"
364,"Living under harsh conditions like extreme weather or food scarcity ? Then you ' re more likely to believe in powerful , judgmental gods , according to a new study. A group of researchers from various fields reached their conclusion after synthesizing historical data from 583 societies around the world , phys.org reports. "" When life is tough or when it ' s uncertain , people believe in big gods , "" says study co-author Russell Gray , who adds that religion may help people come together and beat the odds. If true , the Guardian says , this could explain the rise of Christianity and Islam in regions plagued by famine and dire climatic changes. But there ' s more : The researchers also sought links between religion and other factors , like politics and farming. story continues below Sure enough , the study found that societies with "" political complexity "" ( a hierarchy of figures outside the local community ) and animal husbandry often believe in high gods who impose a moral code. In the end , researchers could match societies to their religious beliefs with 91 % accuracy , the Washington Post reports. The findings also overlap with research showing that religion brings people together after a disaster like an earthquake , or that societies facing dire threats tend to restrict people ' s behavior. But studies until now have tried explaining religion either by environmental or cultural factors  not both. Gray also separates himself from "" evolutionists ... trying to bang religion on the head , "" he says. "" I think the challenge is to explain it. "" ( For more on religion , read about the Mormons ' "" sacred undergarments. "" )"
365,"With the huge fire in a Phoenix recycling yard down to a few smoking hotspots Monday , the scale of the weekend blaze became clear. The Phoenix Fire Department mounted the largest response in its history , the Arizona Republic reports. At one point Saturday , the day the blaze started , more than 200 firefighters from 10 agencies were fighting it as huge clouds of smoke covered the region. One firefighter was injured and has been released from a hospital , and five structures were destroyed. And the National Weather Service reported the blaze could be seen from space and on its radar. "" We do go on recycling fires , "" a fire department spokesman said , including ones at the same yard , but they ' re smaller. "" This is our first time experiencing this , "" he said. story continues below By Monday , per KTAR , crews were dealing with the last hotspots  compact cardboard and paper pallets still burning  and were about ready to turn the site over to the owners. The blaze had jumped from the recycling yard to a tire shop and a lumber yard , all packed with fuel for a fire. The environmental impact wasn ' t clear yet ; the fire department spokesman said most of what burned was paper and cardboard. Those materials are closer to what burns in a forest , an expert said , and so less worrisome than hazardous materials that might be stored in such a place. "" I ' m quite sure that fuel loads in a recycling plant could be off the charts compared to a forest , "" he said , per the Washington Post , "" which would explain why the fire behavior and heat output are so extreme. "" ( Read more fire stories. )"
366,"Three teenage boys have been arrested in the Denver house fire that killed a family of five in August , after months without progress. Authorities say the two 16-year-olds and a 15-year-old face 28 criminal counts , including first-degree murder , attempted murder with extreme indifference , arson , and burglary , per the New York Times. The news came at a Wednesday press conference , where authorities declined to comment on a motive or say how the minors had been identified. But "" we have a good understanding of the hows and whys on this , "" Police Chief Paul Pazen said. Authorities noted there was no evidence of a hate crime. The Colorado chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations had pushed police to investigate that possibility while supplying $ 10,000 of a $ 50,000 award for information , per the AP. story continues below Early in the case , police pointed to three masked and hooded suspects , seen on surveillance video in the Green Valley Ranch neighborhood where the fire was set in the early hours of Aug. 5. Immigrants from Senegal  Djibril Diol , 29 ; his partner , Adja Diol , 23 ; their 22-month-old daughter , Khadija ; Djibril ' s sister , Hassan Diol , 25 ; and her infant daughter , Hawa Baye  died in the blaze. Three others escaped by jumping from the home ' s second floor. "" We are grateful "" for the arrests but "" are still in pain "" and "" know it ' s not going to bring these beautiful people back , "" family spokesman Papa Dia tells the AP. Denver Mayor Michael Hancock said he ' d spoken with Senegal Consul General Elhadji Ndao about the arrests. Hancock calls the fire "" one of the most heinous crimes I ' ve ever seen or witnessed in our city , as mayor or otherwise , "" Hancock said. ( Read more murder stories. )"
367,"A clock that stopped working after the catastrophic 2011 earthquake in Japan has resumed ticking a decade later  after another strong earthquake. The BBC reports that the century-old , spring-driven clock in a Buddhist temple stopped keeping time when the temple was damaged by the quake and ensuing tsunami. The temple ' s head priest didn ' t part with the 31-inch clock , however , and now he ' s glad. After another powerful quake rattled the Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures earlier this year , Bunshun Sakano visited the temple to assess damage and heard the clock ticking again for the first time in a decade , per the Mainichi Shimbun newspaper. story continues below "" It ' s like a sign of encouragement that the real restoration is to come , "" he said , referring to recovery efforts now in their 11th year following the original tragedy. The Fumonji temple is located in the town of Yamamoto in Miyagi prefecture. So how to explain the weird phenomenon of the clock ? The Japanese newspaper reached out to manufacturer Seiko , and a rep offered some possibilities. "" It ' s possible that the pendulum , which had stopped , started moving again with the shaking of the earthquake , or that dust which had built up inside came loose. "" ( The more recent quake might actually be an aftershock of the original. )"
368,"It won ' t sound chilly to the people of Rapid City , South Dakota , but it does to Angelenos. For the first time since records began 132 years ago , the temperature in downtown Los Angeles never got as high as 70 degrees in all of February. Overall , it was the eighth-coldest February for the city on record , the National Weather Service told the Los Angeles Times. The average high for the month was 61 degrees , 7 degrees below the historical average. One storm after another , and a lack of offshore flows , the Weather Service said , kept it cool. Temperatures have been rising for years there , which might make it seem colder now. "" We have already internalized a lot of the warming that ' s occurred , "" a UCLA climate scientist said. He said the future probably will hold more of the same : swings between severe winter rainstorms and serious drought. story continues below Other parts of the country set records of their own. Low temperatures in the North and West continental US kept the national temperature about 3.5 degrees below average , a meteorologist said. Eau Claire , Wisconsin , posted its snowiest month on record  53.7 inches , USA Today reports. Minneapolis and Des Moines had historic snow , too. A Montana newspaper called it a "" miserable February. "" In much of the South , the issue was rain. Nashville and Knoxville had their wettest February ; "" there were no areas of Knoxville that weren ' t affected "" by flooding , an official said. In Florida , Key West and Gainesville had record heat. The cheeriest development is that the US Drought Monitor reports the smallest portion of the lower 48 is in drought conditions since summer 2017  about 11 percent. ( A teenager profited from Seattle ' s snow. )"
369,"A bride facing an enormous amount of rain on her wedding day was rescued from a flooded car in New Jersey on Saturday. Police in Bogota say they rescued the just-married bride and groom after their vehicle became trapped by floodwaters at an intersection at around 6pm , Time reports. The bride managed to get out of the vehicle ' s sunroof and into a police Humvee without getting her dress or shoes wet. Police posted video of the rescue on Facebook , saying they were happy to help the couple through their "" first rough patch. "" "" We definitely get people stuck often , but it was her wedding day , so it was a dynamic situation , "" Sgt. Geoffrey Cole tells the North Jersey Record. "" Nobody was worse for the wear , besides the vehicle. "" ( Read more New Jersey stories. )"
370,"The deadliest wildfire in California is now 90 % contained after firefighters got some help from the region ' s first major rainstorm of the season. The rain in northern California also helped bring the Bay Area ' s air quality from a "" very unhealthy "" rating to "" good , "" though it has also caused hazards including mudslides and worsened the situation for wildfire evacuees still camping outside , the San Francisco Chronicle reports. The rain , which began Wednesday , hasn ' t been heavy enough to cause floods in areas affected by the fire , but with heavier rain expected to begin late Thursday , authorities have stepped up efforts to find the remains of victims in the burn area. story continues below As of Thursday , the death toll stood at 83 , with another 563 people unaccounted for , the Enterprise-Record reports. Authorities warn that the flooding risk will increase as the rain gets heavier. California Task Force 4 rescue officer Brian Ferreira tells CNN that the heavy rain forecast for Butte County will make it even more difficult to find human remains in the devastated town of Paradise. If the rain washes away ash containing remains , "" it ' s out of our hands at that point , "" he says. "" We ' re going to go as hard as we can , as long as we can , until we can ' t go anymore. That ' s what ' s going to happen. "" ( Businesses and volunteers are making sure evacuees get Thanksgiving dinner. )"
371,"The federal investigation of the Boeing 737 Max crashes has recommended changes to address one of its findings : Highly trained test pilots are likely to respond to problems better and faster during the safety certification process than airline pilots in the chaos of a real-life air emergency. The NTSB made seven recommendations Thursday , the Wall Street Journal reports. Five of them concern using more realistic assumptions about pilots ' reactions when a plane ' s automated systems break down. In testing new planes for safety , the FAA and manufacturers have built in quick , best-case responses by the highly trained pilots instead of the more typical reactions that could be expected from pilots with less experience and training. The Max fleet is grounded worldwide after two crashes of the Boeing jetliner killed a total of 346 people this year. story continues below In those crashes , software pushed the noses of the jets down. The pilots , amid a confusing series of warnings and alarms that sometimes conflicted , were not able to recover. The overwhelming flood of alarms has been cited before : The investigation of a 2009 Air France crash that killed 228 people found that the pilots faced a barrage of alarms and couldn ' t decide in time which ones to heed. An expert said at the time , per the New York Times , that pilots "" can  t understand what the airplane is doing unless a computer interprets it for them "" and called for industry-wide changes in training. In the Max report , the TSB  s top investigator called for building assumptions based on "" what the average pilot would do "" instead of the reactions of test pilots who "" know the airplane like the back of their hand. "" Some of the recommendations apply to future planes , as well as the Max series. ( Read more Boeing 737 stories. )"
372,"For just the fourth time ever , Disneyland is closing its gates. The California theme park will close Saturday morning and will be shut down for the rest of the month because of the coronavirus outbreak. Disneyland ' s resort hotels in Anaheim will stay open until Monday to give visitors time to make other arrangements , Variety reports. The adjoining Disney California Adventure also will be shuttered , but Downtown Disney is staying open. The company will refund hotel bookings , per the Los Angeles Times. The only previous Disneyland closings were after the 9/11 terrorist attacks , after California ' s Northridge earthquake , and the morning after President John F. Kennedy was assassinated. Later Thursday , the company announced Walt Disney World in Florida would also close. In fact , by evening , it had been announced that all Disney and Universal parks would close for some length of time , Variety reports. story continues below No cases of a person infected with the coronavirus have been reported at Disneyland , and the Disney Co. had just said the parks would stay open. But on Wednesday , Gov. Gavin Newsom and California health officials called for canceling gatherings of 250 people or more. And the social distancing recommendation  to stay at least six feet from other people  would be difficult for customers to follow at the theme park. Although Disney decided to close , Newsom said Thursday he was exempting Disneyland , casinos , theaters and the like from the recommendation for now to allow for discussion of their specific concerns. "" Disneyland , I think , has a thousand people on a ride every hour , and concerts and theaters , "" Newsom said , per the Times. "" They have parades. That  s a nation-state campus environment. I mean , that  s a whole different thing. "" ( Read more coronavirus stories. )"
373,"Jurors trying to assess the truthfulness of defense lawyer Stephen Gutierrez ' s closing arguments in an arson trial Wednesday may have been dismayed to notice that his pants were literally on fire. Witnesses say the lawyer had to flee the Miami courtroom with smoke billowing from his pocket , the Miami Herald reports. When he returned , the lawyer , who ' d been seen fiddling in his pocket , blamed a faulty e-cigarette battery. Gutierrez said the pocket blaze wasn ' t an attempt to demonstrate the innocence of his client , who was accused of setting his own car on fire. Gutierrez argued that the vehicle spontaneously combusted , but his client was ultimately convicted of second-degree arson. story continues below Prosecutors are investigating the courtroom incident , and the judge could hold Gutierrez in contempt of court if he was found to be staging a stunt , the Herald reports. The bizarre incident already is making headlines in lawyer blogs and overseas newspapers. "" I swear this is not a lawyer joke , "" was the NPR intro to the nugget. And CNET notes that the lawyer has declined to respond to the media ' s requests for comment , which "" leaves several burning questions unanswered. "" ( The owner of this Jeep can probably sympathize. )"
374,"Gary Dalton was draining the irrigation pond on his farmland in Circleville , Utah , when he made a startling discovery : a giant crater staring back up at him from the bottom of the basin. "" The sun was just right , so I saw this blasted thing that no one had ever seen , "" he tells KSL.com. The algae-filled hole , measuring about 25 feet across and at least 7 inches deep in the center  with a few more inches ' give in the middle  has baffled not only the Daltons , but area geologists as well. "" We ' ve got several theories  [ but ] most of them have gone up in smoke , "" says a scientist from the Utah Geological Survey. story continues below Possibilities had included a pushy natural spring emerging from underneath , a buried pipeline , an earthquake , a meteor , or a methane "" burp ""  but they either don ' t seem geographically likely or have been ruled out with photographic evidence. The most likely explanation is that the crater was formed when soil underneath the body of water collapsed from the constant draining and refilling of the pond , which caused an eruption of water and air to make the hole ( check out the visual explainer provided by the Daily Mail ) . But what do the Daltons think caused it ? Gary tells KSL.com , "" My heck , I guess that ' s Martian art , "" while one of his sons simply shrugs and says , "" I have no idea. "" ( Read about another mystery crater at the "" end of the world "" in Siberia. )"
375,"America ' s fastest supercomputer is Titan , a beast that lives up to its name thanks to its ability to perform 17.6 quadrillion calculations per second. But its computing power is now only the fourth strongest in the world. As it did in 2016 , the title goes to China ' s TaihuLight , which can spit out 93 quadrillion calculations per second , or five times what Titan can. It ' s almost three times faster than the second fastest supercomputer , Tianhe-2 , which China also claims. Titan ' s fall to fourth place came at the hands of Piz Dain in Switzerland. But the MIT Technology Review cites two brag-worthy figures : Of the top 10 , the US occupies five slots , and of the top 500 , the US beats China 169 to 160. story continues below But it ' s not just about bragging rights : LiveScience previously reported supercomputers have been used for everything from earthquake research to hurricane forecasting to swine-flu modeling. The Department of Energy , which is responsible for the once-fastest Titan , has just announced that it ' s kicking $ 258 million to a handful of companies over three years to build the world ' s first exascale computer  one that can crunch one billion billion ( aka one quintillion , or 1018 ) calculations per second , and which China is also racing to be the first to build. Forbes reports the six companies involved will add to the pot , with a final price tag of at least $ 430 million. The US predicts its system will be there by 2021. China says it ' ll be done by 2020. ( Obama issued an executive order for the exascale project. )"
376,"Floridians wondering what that big boom was , the one that felt like an earthquake , got answers Sunday. The US Navy set off a 40,000 pound explosive , creating an explosion that measured 3.9 on the Richter scale , the Orlando Sentinel reports. And not as an early Fourth of July firework  the Navy is testing its new aircraft carrier. The USS Gerald Ford is going through Full Ship Shock trials , which means it  s getting some pretty exciting tests to see how well it can take a bomb going off near it. The Ford is the Navy  s most advanced carrier , but also one that has had problems since construction started in 2009 , UPI reports , plagued by cost overruns and inoperable weapons elevators. story continues below These are the first shock trials of an aircraft carrier since 1987 , Business Insider reports. The Navy is hoping to learn how the ship will react to high-pressure waves  the kind of environment that can happen when a bomb almost hits the ship. The Navy is trying to stress the ship and not the ocean it  s floating in , respecting known migration patterns of marine life in the test area , "" according to a statement. When the shock trials are complete , the Ford will go back to Newport News Shipbuilding in Virginia for modernization , maintenance , and repairs ,  the Navy says. ( Read more Navy stories. )"
377,"Four Amish children have been found dead and another remains missing after a horse and buggy overturned in flood waters in Kentucky on Wednesday. The carriage overturned shortly before 5pm as the children and their mother were attempting to cross a low-water bridge over a flooded stream in Bath County , reports the Lexington Herald-Leader. The horse pulling the carriage apparently lost its footing. The children ' s mother made it to safety on the bank of the stream and called police. A man and woman who arrived on scene said they found only the horse , which they pulled from the water uninjured. story continues below "" It was devastating , "" the woman tells WKYT. "" The waters are so swift , and the rain was pouring down. "" County official Bobby Rogers said 50 National Guard members searched for the children throughout the night. Four were pronounced dead at the scene , while the fifth remained missing as of Thursday morning. "" It has been a very tragic and mournful day within Bath County , "" Rogers wrote in a Facebook post late Wednesday , noting the county also recorded its first death from COVID-19 that day , per Fox News. "" I ask that you please remember these individuals , and their families in your prayers. "" ( Read more Kentucky stories. )"
378,"Rodney Alcala , a convicted serial killer who appeared as a contestant on the Dating Game in the middle of his string of slayings , died Saturday in a California prison. Officials attributed the death of Alcala , 77 , to natural causes , the Los Angeles Times reports. He had been on the state ' s death row since being convicted in Orange County in 2010 of killing four women and a 12-year-old girl in the 1970s ; Alcala ' s DNA was a match in each of the cases. In 2012 , he pleaded guilty to killing two more women in New York. The slayings were "" inexplicably brutal and horrific acts , "" the judge said at his New York sentencing before breaking down in tears. Investigators suspected Alcala of other killings in Los Angeles , the San Francisco Bay Area , Seattle , New Hampshire , and Arizona , per NBC. story continues below Alcala ' s California victims included Jill Barcomb , 18 ; Georgia Wixted , 27 ; Charlotte Lamb , 32 ; Jill Parenteau , 21 ; and Robin Samsoe , 12 , who was near the Huntington Beach Pier when she vanished. In New York , Alcala killed Cornelia Crilley , 23 , and Ellen Jane Hover , 23. In 2016 , he was charged with murder in the 1977 death of Christine Ruth Thornton , 28 , in Wyoming. Most of the women were raped and strangled. Authorities said Alcala carried a camera and enticed women to his apartment by offering to photograph them. Investigators were flooded with tips in 2010 when they released photos of women and girls taken by Alcala. ( Read more Rodney Alcala stories. )"
379,"The Olympics wrapped up tonight with a light-blazing , rocking ceremony featuring the reunited Spice Girls , The Who , Annie Lennox ( among many other headliners ) , an exploding car , and a mosh pit filled with thousands of athletes , AP reports. The show kicked off in London with a surprise appearance by actor Timothy Spall playing Winston Churchill emerging from a miniaturized Big Ben , and a shout-out to the Union Jack. Soon all 10,800 Olympic athletes were walking as one  not by nations  and exchanging cheers and camera flashes with the crowd of 80,000. The Independent dubbed it the "" grandest of grand hurrahs for London 2012 , "" which capped a win of 29 gold medals for the Brits , a 104-year record for the nation. story continues below Kate Middleton and Prince Harry were in attendance , sitting next to International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge. The show was designed by artistic director Kim Gavin , whose team had less than a day to prep the Olympic stadium after the last track and field event. "" We lit the flame , and we lit up the world , "" said London organizing committee chief Sebastian Coe. "" When our time came , Britain , we did it right. "" The Yanks won big time this Olympics , leading the pack by grabbing 46 gold medals , the most the US has won in a non-boycotted Olympics since 1904 , notes the Christian Science Monitor. Next , on to Rio. ( Read more 2012 London Olympics stories. )"
380,"A group of up to 17 US missionaries from a Christian group was kidnapped by a gang in Haiti while en route to the airport in Port-au-Prince. Per the New York Times , Haiti officials confirmed the kidnapping , with few details , after Ohio-based Christian Aid Ministries sent a voice message about the incident to various religious missions. "" This is a special prayer alert , "" the one-minute message said , per the AP. "" Pray that the gang members would come to repentance. "" The missionaries were on their way home on Saturday after building an orphanage , according to the message. story continues below The message says the mission ' s field director is working with the US Embassy , and that the field director ' s family and one other unidentified man stayed at the ministry ' s base while everyone else visited the orphanage. No other details were immediately available. government spokesperson said they were aware of the reports on the kidnapping. "" The welfare and safety of US citizens abroad is one of the highest priorities of the Department of State , "" the spokesperson said , declining further comment. Haiti is once again struggling with a spike in gang-related kidnappings that had diminished after President Jovenel Mose was fatally shot at his private residence on July 7 , and following a 7.2-magnitude earthquake that struck southwest Haiti in August and killed more than 2,200 people. Gangs have demanded ransoms ranging from a couple hundred dollars to more than $ 1 million , according to authorities. Last month , a deacon was killed in front of a church in the capital of Port-au-Prince and his wife kidnapped , one of dozens of people who have been abducted in recent months. At least 328 kidnapping victims were reported to Haiti  s National Police in the first eight months of 2021 , compared with a total of 234 for all of 2020 , according to a report issued last month by the United Nations Integrated Office in Haiti known as BINUH. Gangs have been accused of kidnapping schoolchildren , doctors , police officers , busloads of passengers and others as they grow more powerful. ( Read more Haiti stories. )"
381,"A fire took hold at a Brooklyn warehouse at 6 : 20 this morning , and as of late afternoon , the seven-alarm blaze is still going strong , the New York Times reports. Smoke can be seen from outside the city. Some 200 firefighters have been at the scene ; none have been injured in the lengthy effort. But the contents of the warehouse  loads of New York City records  might not have fared so well. The company in charge of the facility , CitiStorage , hosts some four million boxes of records on hospitals , courts , and children ' s services in two warehouses , the New York Daily News reports. story continues below To make matters worse , the firefighters are dealing with terrible cold. They  re extremely , extremely exposed ,  says the department chief. The cold can be painful ; it  s going to hurt you.  The conditions are as bad for the firefighters as they are good for the fire , he tells the Times. Teams will likely be needed in the area for weeks. The fire comes after an earlier small blaze at the same building , which firefighters were able to put out quickly. The causes of both fires are under investigation , the Times notes. ( Read more Brooklyn stories. )"
382,""" The single-most powerful explosive event ever witnessed "" took place somewhere between 1645 BC and 1500 BC , when the volcano Thera erupted on what ' s now the island of Santorini. LiveScience reports its power has been likened to that of an 1883 eruption in Indonesia that could be heard 3,000 miles away and killed some 40,000 people. No such count is available for the Thera explosion , which is why it doesn ' t make LiveScience ' s list of the 11 deadliest natural disasters "" for which reasonably accurate death tolls exist. "" It includes the 2004 Indian Ocean quake and tsunami , which hit Indonesia hardest and killed as many as a quarter of a million people overall. Here are five disasters that didn ' t strike so recently : story continues below 526 Antioch quake : The best estimate comes from John Malalas , a Greek chronicler from the Byzantine city where the quake struck whose writings from the time put the toll at about 250,000. A 2007 paper noted that the temblor ' s May timing was inopportune as the city ' s population was swollen with tourists there for Ascension Day , resulting in an elevated toll. 1556 Shaanxi earthquake : As far as earthquakes go , this is pretty much the worst. Believed to have been about a magnitude 8 , it is said to have demolished a 621-square-mile region of China ' s Shaanxi province on Jan. 23 of that year , killing some 830,000 people. 1839 India cyclone : Some 20,000 ships were wiped out by the cyclone and resulting storm surge that struck the port city of Coringa on Nov. 25 , but that number pales in comparison to the estimated death toll : 300,000 people. 1920 Haiyuan earthquake : The US Geological Survey believes that this quake that hit central China on Dec. 16 of that year registered as a magnitude 7.8. Landslides were a big contributor to the death toll , which researchers in 2010 estimated as 273,400. 1931 Central China Floods : Pegged by LiveScience as the deadliest of all natural disasters , this one spanned the months of July and August. The estimated ranges of those killed is a huge one , but the number is big regardless : Somewhere between 2 million and 3.7 million were killed when the Yangtze River flooded due to strong rains and melting snow , affecting some 70,000 square miles. Click for LiveScience ' s full list . ( Read more lists stories. )"
383,"At least 25 people died in New Jersey in the aftermath of Hurricane Ida. The remnants of the storm dumped rain on the Northeast  as much as three inches in an hour in some areas , the Wall Street Journal reports. People in areas that got severe weather and flooding got alerts on their cellphones , but the warnings to stay indoors didn  t warn people not to get in their cars , the New York Times reports. Eight people in New Jersey were found dead in their cars  one electrocuted and one dead of a heart attack. People in cars seem to have been surprised by deep , swift water on roads , and were swept away or trapped in their cars. One man who left his car and tried to walk to safety was swept into a sewer pipe and found dead miles away. story continues below While searching for that man , Danush Reddy , police found another man who had suffered a similar fate and survived. In Cranford , New Jersey , first responders answered 15 calls for help with stranded cars , but fortunately no deaths were reported. In another part of the state a car was found halfway buried in dirt and rocks with a man ' s body inside , the AP reports. In Passaic , when a car got stuck in an underpass the driver  s wife and son were rescued , but the water rapidly rose to 8 feet , and the driver , Luis Jalil-Solarzario , 70 , drowned , NorthJersey.com reports. In that town alone , first responders made 200 rescues. Everywhere we went we were pulling six , eight people from cars ,  Fire Chief Patrick Trentacost said. ( Read more Hurricane Ida stories. )"
384,"A passing construction worker saved the life of a disabled woman on Wednesday after noticing smoke billowing from her home in Milton , Vermont. Marie O ' Connor , 83 , was home alone and cooking when a grease fire erupted around 10 : 30am. She tried to escape , but her battery-operated wheelchair got stuck in a doorway , reports WPTZ. Chris Fanning tells the Burlington Free Press he crawled inside the home after hearing screams and pulled O ' Connor out as "" the back of the wheelchair was on fire. "" O ' Connor was taken to a hospital , where she is listed in good condition with burns to her head and arms. A fire chief says the blaze "" could so easily have been a fatal. "" Fanning says he was just "" at the right place at the right time. "" ( Read more fire stories. )"
385,"Facebook is giving users an easy way to inform loved ones they ' re safe in the midst of a major disaster. How its new Safety Check feature works : If you ' re in an affected area  this is determined using the city listed in your profile , a location last recorded by the Nearby Friends feature if applicable , and where you ' re using the Internet  the tool sends you a notification asking if you ' re safe , according to Facebook ' s blog. When the "" I ' m Safe "" button is clicked , an update is automatically posted to your News Feed , along with any comments you provide , Engadget reports. You can also mark friends as safe , browse through all check-ins , or inform Facebook that you ' re not actually in the affected area. Mark Zuckerberg unveiled the feature in Japan , which was just hit by two typhoons in a week. story continues below "" A truly useful tool , or just a cagey way to try to take some of the creepiness out of the apps ' location tracking features ? "" asks Richard Lawler for Engadget. "" We ' re figuring the latter impression doesn ' t hurt from Facebook ' s perspective. "" Safety Check was born out of a Japanese effort. Facebook engineers there created the Disaster Message Board after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami wreaked havoc on the country. A test of that tool spawned an "" overwhelming "" response that inspired this latest feature , which will be available worldwide on Android , iOS , and desktops. But Safety Check may step on the toes of another Internet giant , PC World points out. Google has launched "" Person Finder "" sites to track survivors of numerous disasters , including flash floods in India and the 2010 earthquake in Chile. ( Read about how a California woman was saved thanks to her iPhone. )"
386,"Barry briefly generated enough wind to become a Category 1 hurricane Saturday as it churned toward the Louisiana coast  but the storm ' s biggest threat appears to be rain , not wind , USA Today reports. Barry made landfall west of New Orleans just before noon with maximum sustained winds of 75mph , barely enough for a hurricane , then fell to 70mph and tropical storm status. Meanwhile , more than 95,000 southern Louisiana residents have lost power and all planes are grounded at New Orleans ' main airport , per the New York Times. Forecasters say Hurricane Barry could drop 10 to 20 inches of rain by tomorrow through Baton Rouge , New Orleans , and southwestern Mississippi , and hit some parts of Louisiana with 25 inches. It will also test flood-prevention moves made after Hurricane Katrina. In the latest developments : story continues below Some Louisiana residents took refuge on rooftops as heavy rain poured down and highways went underwater , per the AP. Alabama is getting hit too , with roads flooded in Mobile County and rain contributing to traffic accidents. One of two levees is overtopping on Plaquemines Parish , a strip of land that reaches into the Gulf of Mexico , per CNN. But officials say New Orleans ' levees , which are roughly 20 to 25 feet high , should hold. Coast Guard helicopters are removing residents of Isle de Jean Charlus , a remote island roughly 45 miles south of New Orleans. More than 12 people have been rescued there so far. In positive news , forecasters said Friday the Mississippi River will likely crest at roughly 17.1 feet in New Orleans on Monday , about two feet lower than expected. About 3,000 National Guard troops are ready in helicopters , high-water vehicles , and boats around Louisiana. Meanwhile , national media reports ( like this headline ) may be causing Louisiana residents more anxiety than the actual storm : "" So don ' t panic them , OK ? "" writes Kevin Allman at the Advocate. "" It doesn ' t make for the sexiest story , but just : chill. That ' s what we ' re trying to do. "" ( Read more Louisiana stories. )"
387,"The death toll in Greece stands at 80 in the wake of devastating and fast-moving wildfires that struck near Athens Monday during what Reuters describes as a late afternoon siesta time. Much of the focus has been on Mati , a seaside town frequented by area tourists. Many fled into the sea to survive , but others were stymied by steep cliffs and suffocated. More remain missing. The latest on what one local paper describes as "" Armageddon "" : The AP offers this treacherous description : "" Survivors described dramatic scenes of people fleeing to beaches and being forced to swim out to sea despite gale-force winds and high waves to escape choking smoke and flaming pine cones raining down into the water. "" Reuters reports on a challenge ahead : identifying the dead. "" The majority of the bodies are totally charred , "" says one forensic scientist who explains that forensic dentistry experts will assist in the effort. story continues below The AP has the story of one couple who survived by staying put in their home after realizing the streets were blocked by cars. Anna Kiriazova , 56 , says the fire came upon them quickly , and that she and her 65-year-old husband wet their home using a garden hose , closed their shutters , put towels on their faces , and waited out an hourlong blaze. She believes the fact their window frames are metal , not wood , may have kept their home from being engulfed. "" I have no words to describe what we lived through. "" As for how many houses are now uninhabitable , the mayor of the Marathon district , which includes Mati , shares the toll , per the Guardian : "" Of the 1,900 houses in Mati and the 1,100 in Neos Voutzas , two-thirds must have burned. "" The head of the Athens Chamber of Commerce put it even more starkly : "" The area can only be compared to Syria on a day of heavy bombardment. "" As for those cars used in getaways , CNN reports the roads of Mati feature dried puddles of molten aluminum , left in places where the heat of the fire caused the cars ' metal to melt. As for the missing , the Guardian reports an Irish newlywed is among them. Brian O ' Callaghan-Westropp and Zoe Holohan tried to escape in a car but were forced to exit it. Holohan made it to the beach ; O ' Callaghan-Westropp remains missing. The Irish Times reports the two were married Thursday and flew to Greece for their honeymoon two days later. ( Read more Greece stories. )"
388,"Brace yourself for lots of Magnum PI jokes today : Tom Selleck has been accused of stealing water amid California ' s drought to keep his sprawling estate and avocado farm well-watered. The Calleguas Municipal Water District , with help from a real private investigator , accuses Selleck of sending a water truck to fill up repeatedly in recent years at a public hydrant , reports the Los Angeles Times. The truck then allegedly brought the water to the Sellecks ' 60-acre ranch in Westlake Village , which is in a different water district. story continues below Calleguas says it sent Selleck a cease-and-desist order in 2013 , but his truck was spotted filling up as recently as March of this year. Among other things , the water district wants the actor and his wife to pay for the cost of its private investigator  $ 21,685.55 to be exact , reports E ! Online. Selleck may now experience a modern California phenomenon : drought-shaming. ( Read more Tom Selleck stories. )"
389,"A massive fire has destroyed millions of items at Brazil ' s national museum  and for many Brazilians , shock has turned to anger. The blaze , which began at the 200-year-old museum in Rio de Janeiro after it closed to the public Sunday , is believed to have wiped out much of its 20-million item collection , including Latin America ' s largest national history collection , the Guardian reports. "" It is an unbearable catastrophe , "" museum vice-director Luiz Duarte told TV Globo. "" It is 200 years of this country  s heritage. It is 200 years of memory. It is 200 years of science. It is 200 years of culture , of education. "" Famous items feared to have been destroyed in the blaze include "" Luzia , "" a 12,000-year-old skeleton thought to have been the oldest ever found in the Americas. story continues below The cause of the fire is still unknown , but the building , which once housed the Portuguese royal family , had fallen into disrepair in recent years amid budget issues. Fire authorities say there was a huge amount of flammable material in the building  and the nearest two hydrants were dry. "" This isn ' t just Brazilian history that ' s gone up in flames. Many see this as a metaphor for the city  and the country as a whole , "" says BBC correspondent Katy Watson , who notes that rising violence and economic decline have hit Rio very hard since the 2016 Olympics. "" This was a museum that many saw as long ignored and underfunded  now , with devastating consequences for Brazil ' s heritage , "" she says. ( Read more Brazil stories. )"
390,"Financial markets are starting to rebound from the coronavirus pandemic amid promising signs from world economies  but Deutsche Bank doesn ' t pay its analysts to be optimists. In a report issued Tuesday , those analysts warned that there is a one-in-three chance of an event even more devastating than the pandemic hitting the world in the next decade , MarketWatch reports. The analysts said the biggest risks include a flu pandemic killing more than 2 million people , a "" globally catastrophic volcanic eruption , "" a massive solar flare , or global war. Earthquakes were not included in the figures as they are localized events. A major flu pandemic was seen as the most likely catastrophe , with a 2 % chance of one occurring in any given year. ( The COVID-19 death toll stands at roughly 445,000. ) story continues below A severe solar storm hasn ' t hit the Earth since 1859 , but it was rated as the second most likely disaster , with a 1.06 % annual chance , reports Business Insider. "" There could be major power outages as electrical power grids are disrupted , which in turn would have knock-on effects throughout the economy as critical infrastructure is unable to be run properly , "" the bank said. An eruption on the scale of the 1815 eruption of Mount Tambora in Indonesia , which caused worldwide crop failures during the "" Year Without a Summer , "" was given an 0.15 % annual chance of occurring. Analysts acknowledged that the chances of global war are harder to predict , but said a "" conservative assumption "" would be 0.625 % annually , meaning about a 25 % chance of a world war within the next 40 years. ( Read more disaster stories. )"
391,"Two conservative media giants are combining forces. Glenn Beck and Mark Levin are merging TheBlaze and CRTV to create what the Hollywood Reporter calls a "" conservative media powerhouse. "" Beck founded TheBlaze after exiting Fox News , while Levin , a former attorney in Ronald Reagan ' s administration and nationally syndicated radio host , founded LevinTV , which ultimately became CRTV ( "" Conservative Review "" TV ) . CNN notes that the two media entities have been competitors for years , both offering on-demand video libraries with content from conservative contributors ( among CRTV ' s stable : Michelle Malkin and Duck Dynasty ' s Phil Robertson ) and websites featuring conservative news and commentary ; it paints the merger as "" one of the most sizable consolidations to ever take place in right-wing media. "" story continues below Beck says the new company , Blaze Media , could ultimately bring others onboard : "" This is the beginning of scale , "" he tells THR. "" Anyone who loves the Bill of Rights and pursues honesty , I want them all in. We  re an open book. Let  s talk. "" CNN reports that TheBlaze had been struggling recently , with executive turnover , layoffs , and high-profile splits with talent including Tomi Lahren. Ben Shapiro ' s Daily Wire had considered merging with the company recently , and Beck tells THR he ' d "" still like to do that. "" For now , Daily Wire will be one of Blaze Media ' s competitors ; others include Breitbart News , the Daily Caller , and the newly launched Fox Nation online streaming platform. Blaze Media will reach 165 million people via digital platforms and social media , plus some TV providers including DISH and Verizon. ( Read more Glenn Beck stories. )"
392,"Florida ' s Gulf Coast has been placed under a tropical storm warning , with forecasters warning that Tropical Storm Elsa is expected to impact the Florida Keys late Monday and move across or near the coast Tuesday and Wednesday. The warning has been extended as far north as the Tampa Bay area , with 15 counties now under a state of emergency , USA Today reports. Elsa weakened from a hurricane early Saturday after causing major damage in several Caribbean countries , including Barbados. Officials say the storm killed one person in St. Lucia and two in the Dominican Republic , reports the AP. Some 180,000 people in Cuba fled their homes ahead of an expected landfall on the country ' s central southern shore Monday afternoon. story continues below The storm is expected to weaken further over Cuba before potentially regaining strength as it passes between the island and the Keys , reports the Tampa Bay Times. "" All Floridians should prepare for the possibility of heavy rain , flooding and potential power outages , "" DeSantis tweeted Monday. "" Now is the time to restock your supplies and review your hurricane plan. "" The National Hurricane Center says some parts of Florida can expect up to 6 inches of rain. The center says heavy rain could cause flooding in Georgia and the Carolinas later in the week. ( Elsa is the earliest E-named Atlantic storm on record. )"
393,"The Los Angeles Kings won their first Stanley Cup in their 45-year history in style Monday night with a 6-1 victory over the New Jersey Devils on home ice. Captain Dustin Brown , who had a goal and two assists , became only the second American-born captain to lift the cup  in front of a wildly delirious Staples Center crowd which included dozens of fans who have been rink-side since the team ' s creation in 1967 , reports AP. story continues below The Devils had scored back-to-back wins after going 3-0 down , raising fears that the Kings would be the first team since 1942 to blow a 3-0 series lead in the Stanley Cup final , but the first period changed everything , the Los Angeles Times reports. Devils forward Steve Bernier was slapped with a five-minute penalty for boarding , and the Kings were 3-0 up by the end of the power play. Jeff Carter and Trevor Lewis scored two goals apiece for the Kings. Matt Greene added another , and playoff MVP Jonathan Quick stopped 17 shots , helping make the Kings the first eighth-seeded team ever to lift the Cup. ( Read more Los Angeles Kings stories. )"
394,""" This bill ensures that every unborn child who has a heartbeat will be saved from the ravages of abortion , "" Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said Wednesday as he signed one of the nation ' s most restrictive anti-abortion bills into law. The measure bans abortion as early as six weeks , meaning that many women  including victims of rape and incest  will be banned from having abortions before they even know they are pregnant , the Texas Tribune reports. The bill , which is due to take effect in September , makes exceptions only for medical emergencies. A dozen other states have passed similar "" heartbeat "" abortion bills , though the Texas bill , unlike others , ensures that the ban will be enforced by private citizens , not the government , the Guardian reports. story continues below The bill allows any citizen , whether or not they live in Texas , to sue abortion providers and anybody else who helps someone get an abortion after the six-week limit , the AP reports. They may seek damages of up to $ 10,000 per defendant. Reproductive rights groups warn that the broadly written bill will allow anti-abortion activists to harass doctors , nurses , counselors , and even the friends and relatives of women who have abortions with a flood of lawsuits. "" The goal is clear : to relentlessly attack our reproductive rights until abortion is a right in name only , "" said Alexis McGill Johnson , president of Planned Parenthood Action Fund. Court challenges have blocked other heartbeat bills from taking effect and rights groups have vowed to fight the Texas one as well. ( On Monday , the Supreme Court agreed to consider a rollback of abortion rights. )"
395,"Multiple people died and dozens others were rescued when three ferry boats separately capsized in bad weather Saturday between two central Philippine island provinces , the coast guard said. Coast guard spokesman Armand Balilo said it ' s not immediately clear if there were passengers or crewmen missing after the inter-island ferries either turned over or sank in rough seas , wind , and rain between Guimaras and Iloilo provinces , per the AP , which reports seven dead. GMA News Online and ABS-CBN report the death toll is at 11. Balilo told the AP that one of the ferry boats , M/B Cheche , was carrying at least 42 passengers. Another boat , M/B Keizha , reportedly had four crewmen on board , while the third ferry , M/B Jenny , carried an unspecified number of people who were rescued and brought on board a coast guard ship , he said. story continues below Video from ABS-CBN showed a rescuer carrying a child from a motorboat to an ambulance at an Iloilo pier , where frantic relatives waited. Forecasters have warned of heavy monsoon rains and thunderstorms amid a brewing storm about 550 miles off the country ' s eastern coast. Classes and work have been suspended in the Manila metropolis amid heavy rains and flooding , which caused heavy traffic jams Friday in low-lying areas in the capital. About 20 typhoons and storms batter the Philippines each year , making the archipelago that lies on the Pacific typhoon and earthquake belt one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world. ( Read more Philippines stories. )"
396,"Wildfires continue to rage in California as historic winds buffet the area , and on Wednesday morning , a fire broke out in Simi Valley and quickly surrounded the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library. The Easy Fire had exploded to 1,300 acres by 10am and was threatening 6,500 homes , KTLA reports , though the station notes most of the flames closest to the library appeared to have been put out shortly after that time. Those inside the library , which was built to withstand both fires and earthquakes , were sheltering in place , the Los Angeles Times reports. Santa Ana winds were gusting as high as 50mph in the area , with some ridgetop areas nearby reporting gusts as high as 76mph. Freeways and schools in the area were closed , evacuations were ordered , and meanwhile , other fires continued to rage elsewhere in the state. story continues below Per CBS 7 , which reports that about a dozen fires are burning across the state : The Getty Fire , which raged on the property of a fireproof Los Angeles museum last week , was at 745 acres and 27 % containment as of Wednesday , Northern California ' s Kincade Fire was at 76,825 acres and 30 % containment , more than 400,000 homes across the state were without power , and parts of the state were under a first-ever "" extreme red flag warning "" due to winds. The Sacramento Bee adds that two other major fires , the Tick Fire in Southern California and the Sky Fire in Northern California , were completely or near-completely contained. In all , California fires have killed three people and destroyed more than 400 homes this year. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
397,"Rescuers say the scene  and the task before them  is similar to the aftermath of an earthquake , but the cause of the disaster in Genoa was very different. The confirmed death toll from Tuesday ' s bridge collapse now stands at 35 , including at least three children , and rescuers worked long into the night looking for survivors who could be heard calling from the rubble of a collapsed 250-foot section of the Morandi Bridge on the A10 highway , the BBC reports. Several people were pulled alive from vehicles trapped in a jumble of concrete debris and steel girders. Authorities believe more than 30 cars and three heavy vehicles were on the bridge when it collapsed amid a sudden storm and torrential rain. story continues below One survivor says he managed to slam on his brakes and stop just a few feet short of the 150-foot drop. "" I ' m alive by a miracle. Luckily I was not shunted from behind , otherwise I would have gone down with the others , "" he tells the Telegraph. "" There was total panic. People got out of the cars and ran. "" The cause of the 51-year-old bridge ' s collapse is still unclear , though work to strengthen its foundation was happening at the time. Danilo Toninelli , Italy ' s transport minister , called Wednesday for managers of the private company operating the bridge to resign , the Guardian reports. He said the government plans to cancel the contract of Autostrade per l ' Italia to operate the highway from Genoa to the French border. ( Read more Genoa stories. )"
398,"50 Cent is facing outrage and possible legal action after  for some reason  filming himself making fun of an autistic janitor at the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport , TMZ reports. A video posted to 50 Cent ' s Instagram account Sunday ( and later removed ) shows the rapper approaching 19-year-old Andrew Farrell , who was pushing a cart through the airport. 50 Cent complains that people Farrell ' s age are "" crazy , "" then asks his name. Farrell refuses to answer , and 50 Cent claims Farrell is "" high as a motherf --- er. "" 50 Cent also referred to Farrell as "" the walking dead "" on his Instagram post , the Blaze reports. In reality , Farrell has autism and Asperger ' s and requires a hearing aid. According to the Cincinnati Enquirer , a former classmate says Farrell has "" extreme social difficulties. "" story continues below Farrell tells the Enquirer he was "" minding my own business "" when 50 Cent got "" all up in my face. "" "" He just saw a young kid over here working and he basically went off on him , "" Farrell ' s stepdad Ken Kramer says. People from all over the world have come to Farrell ' s defense online. In a Facebook post thanking everyone for their kind words for her son , Amanda Kramer says : "" We are nothing but proud of Andrew and his choices and ability to just ignore this bully. "" But his family might not be prepared to do the same. According to TMZ , the family is considering a lawsuit against 50 Cent unless he gives them $ 1 million and apologizes in person. The profanity-laced video was deleted from 50 Cent ' s Instagram , but not before someone posted it to YouTube , the New York Daily News reports. ( Read more 50 Cent stories. )"
399,"Tragedy struck on a trip to Hawaii that was meant to be an early Christmas present from former US diplomat George Novinger to his wife , Gladys. The prominent San Diego couple were swept away Saturday as they tried to cross the Wailuku River above Rainbow Falls in a state park on Hawaii ' s Big Island , NBC San Diego reports. Gladys Novinger , 62 , was found unconscious in a pool below the 80-foot waterfall and died in a local hospital. Her 61-year-old husband is still missing. Rescuers have been searching from the air , but the ground search has been repeatedly delayed by heavy rain and flash-flood conditions , FOX 5 reports. story continues below George Novinger recently retired from the Foreign Service , where he served in countries including Japan , Paraguay , and Syria before becoming the State Department ' s director of foreign missions in the Southwest. Gladys Novinger served as San Diego ' s honorary Peruvian consul. The couple , who were active in numerous community projects , owned San Diego ' s Vineyard Hacienda. Gladys Novinger ' s son , Joseph Harmes III , says he was with the couple when they were swept away. "" They were the best of the best. It is beyond tragic. They are missed deeply , "" he tells the San Diego Union-Tribune. "" I will always carry them in my heart. And I dedicate my life to their legacy. "" ( Read more Hawaii stories. )"
400,"A northeast Oklahoma daycare shut its doors yesterday after a mother reported her two young sons were severely sunburned during an outing to a water park. Happiness Is a Learning Center daycare in Vinita agreed to cease operations while the state Department of Human Services and police investigate , says DHS spokeswoman Debra Martin. "" They ' re trying to determine exactly what happened , who was involved , and whether or not compliance issues were broken , "" Martin says. Shaunna Broadway tells KOTV that a daycare worker let her 5- and 7-year-old sons play outside Friday without shirts or sunscreen. Photos show the boys ' back and shoulders covered with giant blisters. "" Whether it was intentional or not intentional , they were supposed to take care of them , and they did not  and that ' s the bottom line , "" says Broadway. story continues below "" I ' m a single parent , and I do all I can , "" Broadway tells the station. "" I work Monday through Friday , and they have to go to daycare. "" Broadway says she initially took her boys to a Tulsa hospital , but that because of the severity of the burns , they were flown to a children ' s facility in Texas. A GoFundMe page set up for the boys was originally yanked because a photo of the burns was deemed too graphic , a relative tells the Blaze. The page says Conner suffered second- and third-degree burns , while Trey ' s were second-degree. Meanwhile , a review of Oklahoma DHS records shows the facility has been cited 19 times since Sept. 30 , mostly for violations connected to staffing and signage. Martin said there are no plans for the daycare to reopen. ( You can see two photos of the burns here ; warning , they ' re graphic. )"
401,"( User Submitted )  Violent protests erupted in Haiti this morning following last night ' s announcement that the presidential election is headed for a January run-off vote  without Michel Martelly ' s name on the ballot , Reuters reports. Supporters of the popular musician took to the streets in a show of anger after he was narrowly eliminated in the first round of voting , which pitted him against former First Lady Mirlande Manigat and Jude Celestin , a candidate favored by the current president. story continues below The US embassy released a statement questioning the results of the Nov. 28 election and suggested that the will of the Haitian people  might not have been reflected. The international community had been hoping for a smooth election to ensure continuity as the country continues to recover from January  s earthquake and battle a cholera epidemic. Read the full article. ( Read more Haiti stories. )"
402,"Parents seeking a silver lining in the never-ending battle of getting their kids to get some shut-eye may want to chat with Delaware mom Angela Marie Borden. That ' s because her 13-year-old son wouldn ' t listen to her and go to sleep Tuesday night , opting instead to settle in for some Netflix , and his stubbornness may have saved their lives. Damir Carter was still glued to the TV  WGRZ says he was binge-watching The Flash  around 1 : 30am when he suddenly smelled smoke. "" Then I saw the fire , "" he tells WPVI. "" When I saw that , I started yelling for my mom. ... If Netflix wasn ' t there , I probably would have went to sleep. "" story continues below Borden says she doesn ' t know what would have happened if Damir hadn ' t been sneaking some boob tube and been awake to alert her ; her husband was working an overnight shift and wasn ' t in the Minquadale home. "" As soon as I found out , it was about four minutes and my kitchen was in flames , "" she says. Borden tells the Delaware News Journal that she was told a spark from an electrical outlet started the fire due to the home ' s breaker box pulling in too much power. NECN reports eight pets died in the blaze : four dogs , three bearded dragons , and a cat. The family lost another home to a fire four years ago. A GoFundMe has been started in the family ' s name to help them get back on their feet. As for Damir ' s late-night disobedience : "" He won ' t get grounded this time , "" Borden tells WPVI. ( Read more uplifting news stories. )"
403,"Cal Fire San Diego Chief Tony Meacham says he took "" the call that no fire chief ever wants to receive "" Thursday when he was told a local firefighter had died battling the massive Thomas fire. Cory Iverson , a 32-year-old engineer with a state fire engine strike team , is survived by his pregnant wife and a 2-year-old daughter , the AP reports. Meacham says Iverson , whose team had been fighting the blaze since Dec. 5 , died while engaging with "" a very active part of the fire "" near Fillmore , Calif. Authorities have not disclosed how he died , but they say Iverson ' s death is being investigated by an accident review team. story continues below "" This incident has shaken our organization to the core , "" Meacham says , per the San Diego Union-Tribune. He says San Diego Fire-Rescue has sent eight fire engines to the blaze to give Iverson ' s Cal Fire colleagues time to grieve. The Thomas fire burning in Santa Barbara and Ventura counties is now the fourth-largest fire in California history , covering 379 square miles , and fire officials say they do not expect to have it fully contained for more than three weeks , the Los Angeles Times reports. The National Weather Service says stronger winds are likely to create extreme fire danger conditions over the weekend. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
404,"In a development that characters in a Tom Clancy novel would probably dismiss as far-fetched , intelligence figures fear that the next president might retaliate against the CIA and other agencies that have linked Russian hackers to election interference. "" There is not just smoke here. There is a blazing 10-alarm fire , the sirens are wailing , the Russians provided the lighter fluid , and Trump is standing half-burnt and holding a match , "" retired CIA officer Glenn Carle tells the Guardian. "" The facts hurt , Trump won ' t like the truth , and he will without question seek to destroy those individuals or organizations that say or do anything that he thinks harm his precious grandiosity. "" Trump has attacked the CIA ' s allegations as "" ridiculous. "" story continues below Lawmakers including Sen. Ron Wyden , a Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee , say that in light of the Trump team ' s attempts to "" discredit the entire intelligence community , "" they will be on their guard for any attempts to retaliate against intelligence officers. In other coverage : The New York Times takes a look at what it calls a "" mountain of circumstantial evidence "" suggesting Russian hackers worked to help Trump and damage Hillary Clinton. Sources say there is disagreement between the CIA and FBI on whether this adds up to actual proof of Russia actively trying to get Trump elected president. Politico reports that former UN ambassador John Bolton suspects the hacking may have been a "" false flag "" attack involving the Obama administration. "" I believe that the intelligence community has been politicized in the Obama administration to a very significant degree , "" Bolton , who is rumored to be bound for a senior position in the Trump administration , told Fox News Sunday. The AP reports that the Russia issue is likely to cast a shadow over a week in which Trump is expected to unveil his choices to head the Energy , Agriculture , and Veterans Affairs departments and hold a news conference Thursday detailing how he plans to distance himself from his business enterprises. In an op-ed at the Washington Post , EJ Dionne Jr. looks at why Trump ' s response to the allegations "" inspires fear , "" saying he finds it "" outrageous "" that Trump can "" ignore the risks our intelligence agents take on so many fronts to protect us. "" ( On Sunday , four senators demanded a bipartisan investigation of the CIA ' s claim . )"
405,"Complaints about a planned bottled water plant in Mount Shasta , Calif. , have been cemented in a lawsuit. Nonprofit group We Advocate Thorough Environmental Review ( WATER ) claims Crystal Geyser doesn ' t have the proper permits and is violating land-use provisions in getting the plant up and running in a drought , reports the San Francisco Chronicle. Operators of the plant  which will pull thousands of gallons of water a day from an aquifer that provides drinking water for millions  weren ' t required to get a permit or an environmental impact report. "" We don ' t know what the effect of this plant will be on the local environment , so we are asking for an injunction until these issues have been decided , "" says the president of WATER ' s board of directors. story continues below Some of Mount Shasta ' s 3,400 residents fear the bottling operation will drain wells and deplete the aquifer , which feeds the Sacramento River ; it will also rely on the city sewage plant , reports the Los Angeles Times. In addition to Crystal Geyser , the lawsuit names Siskiyou County , alleging the county is turning a blind eye to the law and "" rubber stamping "" the plant. County officials say they don ' t have the authority to demand an environmental impact report since water bottling is a previous and permitted use. Coca-Cola operated the 145,000-square-foot bottling plant until 2010 ; Crystal Geyser took it over in 2013. A rep for the company says it is "" disappointed "" by the lawsuit. "" We are moving ahead , however , with our plans to open the plant in the coming months. "" ( Read more California drought stories. )"
406,"President Trump was on Tuesday served beef ribs with gravy that had 360-year-old soy sauce as an ingredient during South Korea ' s state dinner , and it came served with two sides of controversy. PRI reports it was the first state visit by a US president in 25 years , so South Korea made a big deal out of the dinner , along with some bold moves. The meal featured shrimp harvested near islands with disputed ownership : South Korea calls them Dokdo ; Japan , Takeshima , reports the Guardian. And that wasn ' t the only snub Japan says it suffered. Trump was photographed greeting one of the evening ' s guests , Lee Yong-soo , an 88-year-old former "" comfort woman "" forced to have sex with Japanese servicemen. Japan reached a deal with South Korea to help survivors in 2015. story continues below George Washington University political science professor Celeste Arrington sees Lee ' s presence as a calculated show of strength by South Korea : "" There ' s been a lot of talk about how close [ Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ] and Trump are. The message was , ' Don ' t take us for granted ... We have national interests , too. ' "" A Japan government rep voiced the "" need to avoid making moves that could negatively affect that close coordination , "" and the Guardian reports a complaint was registered via diplomatic channels. The AFP reports that Seoul ' s foreign ministry on Thursday dubbed Japan ' s comments regarding what it chose to serve at a state dinner "" inappropriate. "" ( Read more South Korea stories. )"
407,"It ' s getting hot out there. The 12-month period from May 2011 to April 2012 was the warmest since records began in 1895 , according to the NOAA  s National Climatic Data Center. The year-long stretch was 0.1  F warmer than the previous record-setter , November 1999-October 2000 , and was 2.8  F warmer than the average May-April period over the last century , reports the Washington Post. NOAA scientists say that because last May was abnormally cool , the 12-month record will probably be broken as soon as next month. story continues below The NOAA ' s April climate report found temperature records being broken around the country , with the US as a whole recording its third-warmest April , and no fewer than 332 locations hitting their warmest April temperature on record. "" The big story moving forward , "" the agency ' s lead researcher tells MSNBC , could be "" lack of precipitation and the development of drought going into summer and the agricultural growing season. Some of the regions we are keeping an eye on : the Southeast , the Southern Rockies and Southern Plains , and the Northeast. "" ( Read more weather stories. )"
408,"China is cracking down on skyscrapers  especially tall ones in small cities. As part of a wider bid to restrict what authorities call "" vanity projects "" and "" ugly architecture , "" authorities have said cities with populations below 3 million will not be allowed to build high-rises taller than 492 feet without a special exemption , and skyscrapers taller than 820 feet will not be allowed in those cities under any circumstances , the BBC reports. Under regulations introduced in July , skyscrapers taller than 820 feet are allowed in larger cities under some circumstances , but anything taller than 1,640 feet is banned. The Empire State Building is 1,250 feet tall. China ' s tallest building , the 2,073-foot Shanghai Tower , was completed in 2014. story continues below Chinese regulators say there ' s no real need for low-density cities to build skyscrapers , which they call a "" waste of resources , "" the Guardian reports. Regulators have also expressed concerns about whether fire and rescue services in smaller cities are capable of dealing with high-rise emergencies. Under the regulations announced by China ' s Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development on Tuesday , local governments will be required to inspect existing super-tall buildings for earthquake resistance , among other factors , CNN reports. The ban on buildings over 1,640 feet was introduced after shaking forced a skyscraper in Shenzhen to close earlier this year. ( Read more China stories. )"
409,"They knew it was coming. For weeks , residents in Iceland have been feeling the ground tremble as the island nation was pummeled by tens of thousands of tiny earthquakes , a phenomenon that scientists warned appeared to be a precursor to a volcanic eruption. On Friday night , that eruption took place in the area around Mount Fagradalsfjall , located on the Reykjanes Peninsula in the southwest portion of the county , reports NPR. The Icelandic Meteorological Office has so far deemed the event a "" minor "" one , noting that lava flows are a "" very local hazard , "" there doesn ' t seem to be ash and rock production , and "" gas pollution is not expected to cause much discomfort , "" except perhaps for residents closest to the volcano. Those people were advised to stay inside for the time being and keep their windows shut. story continues below Officials say they don ' t anticipate having to carry out evacuations , and air travel isn ' t expected to be disrupted as it was in 2010 when the Eyjafjallajokull volcano erupted. Per the AP , it ' s the first eruption on the peninsula in almost eight centuries. The BBC reports that Iceland had registered upward of 40,000 earthquakes over the past three weeks , though the AP notes that scientists were still taken a bit by surprise at Friday ' s eruption , as seismic activity had slowed down in recent days. A magnitude 3.1 quake was recorded less than a mile from Fagradalsfjall shortly before the eruption. Residents in the capital city of Reykjavik , about 20 miles away , and other nearby towns could spot the lava flow from where they were. "" I can see the glowing red sky from my window , "" one local who lives in Grindavik , about 5 miles from the eruption , told Reuters. "" Everyone here is getting into their cars to drive up there. "" ( Read more Iceland stories. )"
410,"Lost power , cracked buildings , crumbled chimneys , broken water pipes  the 7.0 earthquake that rocked Anchorage Friday morning was , by one standard at least , its worst in 54 years. "" I think it ' s safe to say that , not measured in magnitude or location but in terms of how strong the ground itself shook during the earthquake , "" state seismologist Michael West tells CNN. That shaking began at roughly 8 : 30am and left a trail of damage that surprised even quake-savvy Alaskans. Bridges and roads suffered structural damage as portions of highway collapsed , over two dozen water pipes broke , about 70 people asked the city to cut off water due to flooding , jails were forced to run on generators , and hospitals closed everything but emergency rooms , per the Anchorage Daily News. story continues below "" It was very clear that this was something bigger than what we normally experience , "" says Anchorage Mayor Ethan Berkowitz. "" We live in earthquake country ... but this was a big one. "" Not only that , some 200 aftershocks struck in the following 12 hours  four measuring at least 4.0. Yet there were no fatalities , in part because the 25-mile-deep quake dissipated much of its energy before hitting the surface , NBC News reports. Building codes inspired by Alaska ' s "" Great 9.2 "" quake of 1964 also eased the blow : "" Had this happened somewhere else , you might have seen deaths , "" says a geophysics professor. One person who suffered ? Former Governor Sarah Palin : "" Our family is intact  house is not ... I imagine that  s the case for many , many others , "" she tweets. ( Meanwhile , a "" slow-moving disaster "" threatens a rail line and a freeway. )"
411,"Almost three centuries ago , one of the world ' s most important documents was burnt in a fire. That copy of the Magna Carta was unreadable after the 1731 blaze  until now. Scientists have turned to special imaging techniques to read one of the four existing copies of the 1215 document limiting the English king ' s power , LiveScience reports. Multispectral imaging involves creating multiple pictures of the document using light that ranges from ultraviolet to infrared. "" It  s been unable to be read with the naked eye for 200-plus years ,  says an expert. "" We couldn  t have done this even three or four years ago. "" story continues below Each of the four copies of the document is "" slightly different , "" he notes : "" It  s what you would expect if something was copied out by hand "" as the Magna Carta was. With the 800th anniversary of the document coming next year , researchers are preparing to bring all four copies together for the first time ever , the Guardian reports ; normally , the copies are kept separately across England. They ' ll be on display in the British Library , though just 1,215 lucky people , picked via lottery , will get to see them during their appearance on Feb. 3 , 2015. Perhaps David Cameron should join them after faltering on David Letterman ' s UK quiz. ( Read more Magna Carta stories. )"
412,"The New York Police Department has arrested a man accused of harassing an off-duty Muslim police officer previously commended for heroism. The NYPD said Monday that 36-year-old Christopher Nelson has been arrested on charges of menacing as a hate crime and aggravated harassment , the AP reports. Authorities say Officer Aml Elsokary , who was wearing a Muslim head covering , encountered a man yelling and pushing her 16-year-old son on Saturday evening in Bay Ridge , Brooklyn , when she went to park her car , per CBS New York. When Elsokary , who was unarmed , intervened , the man reportedly said , "" ISIS [ expletive ] , I will cut your throat , go back to your country. "" story continues below City officials hailed Elsokary as a hero in 2014 after she saved a baby and the baby ' s grandmother from a blaze in Williamsburg. The NYPD Muslim Officers Society says she ' s one of the few NYPD officers who wears a head covering on the clock. "" No New Yorker should ever have to worship in fear , "" Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand said of this and another recent Islamophobic attack in the city. "" This hate , this language , this behavior must never be normalized. "" There was no immediate information on an attorney who could comment on the defendant ' s behalf. ( A letter sent to California mosques last month promised a genocide of Muslims. )"
413,"The Vikings ' disappearance from Greenland in the 15th century came not in an epic battle but with a decline in the walrus ivory trade , according to researchers , who may have cracked "" one of history ' s big mysteries , "" per Newsweek. Walrus ivory was a hot commodity in medieval Europe. Indeed , pre-1400s walrus tusk artifacts , from crucifixes to chess pieces , have been found across the continent. In studying 67 rostra  the skulls and snouts from which tusks were removed in medieval workshops  researchers found almost all came from walruses in seas accessible only to Norse colonies , meaning the Vikings basically had a monopoly , per a release. But that changed as elephant ivory flooded Europe in the 13th century. Researchers say rostra from this period came only from small walruses , perhaps females and infants , sourced farther north than before. story continues below "" We suspect that decreasing values of walrus ivory in Europe meant more and more tusks were harvested to keep the Greenland colonies economically viable "" since Norse seafarers "" mainly had walrus products to export in exchange "" for iron and timber , Cambridge University ' s James Barrett tells AFP. But longer journeys deeper into the Arctic Circle "" for increasingly meager ivory harvests "" would have only "" exacerbated the decline of walrus populations , "" says Barrett , lead author of the new study in Quaternary Science Reviews. As there ' s little evidence of walrus ivory reaching mainland Europe after 1400 , researchers believe overexploitation eventually meant the end of the Vikings ' main source of income. A previous study examined the downfall of the trade without linking it to the Vikings ' disappearance , also attributed it to climate change. ( Read more Vikings stories. )"
414,"It turns out mushrooms may be better for more than topping pizzas. Who knew ? According to a study published Wednesday , mushrooms may actually help produce the rain they need to live. Discovery reports researchers documented a previously unknown system in which rain makes mushrooms grow , mushrooms release spores into the atmosphere , and those spores create moisture droplets that could lead to rain. We can watch big water droplets grow as vapor condenses on ( the mushroom spore  s ) surface ,  study author Nicholas Money tells Discovery. Nothing else works like this in nature.  This process could be influencing climate patterns around the world , especially in fungus-heavy tropical forests like the Amazon , Gizmodo reports. story continues below According to Gizmodo , a single mushroom can "" catapult "" up to 30,000 spores per second at speeds of up to 4mph. And it ' s been estimated mushrooms release 50 million tons of spores into the atmosphere every year. Using an electron microscope , researchers were able to watch water from humid air attach itself to those same spores to create cloud-forming particulates , Discovery reports. Sixteen-thousand species of mushrooms can do the same trick , so the most abundant species of fungi are likely to have the greatest effect upon cloud formation ,  Money says. Unfortunately for California , Money doesn ' t recommend growing mushrooms to fight droughts despite their potential rain-making abilities. Nature works very well when we leave her alone ,  he tells Discovery. ( Read how portobello mushrooms could power your phone. )"
415,"It ' s not as bad as what happened to people in Hawaii , but it wasn ' t too pleasant , either. Residents of Alaska got an alert Friday morning on their TVs and radios that a tsunami threatened pretty much the entire state. As it turns out , the alert went out in error , reports the Alaska Dispatch News. State officials are still trying to figure out what happened , but it appears that the state ' s alert system broadcast what was supposed to be an internal test. One theory is that something went wrong with the coding as the test got passed along the computer chain from the National Tsunami Warning Center. story continues below "" I couldn ' t find any earthquakes and was really perplexed , "" says one resident of Anchorage , describing herself as more confused than alarmed upon hearing the 7am warning. The recorded message , about two minutes long , did apparently make a brief reference to a "" test message , "" but only at the very end , reports the AP. However , in some places , the message ended even before that qualification. Whether all this is a human or computer error remains to be seen. ( In Hawaii , the errant missile warning required just two clicks. )"
416,"It didn ' t take long for coal baron Robert E. Murray to sue John Oliver : It was just days ago that Oliver ripped into the coal industry on Sunday ' s Last Week Tonight , and by Wednesday , Murray had filed a lawsuit against Oliver , the writers of the show , HBO , and Time Warner , the Daily Beast reports. Oliver focused on President Trump "" lying "" to coal miners : "" Stop telling them that their jobs are all coming back when they  re not. Stop telling them that coal is clean when it isn  t. And stop pretending that this isn  t an industry in the middle of a painful  albeit necessary  transition. "" But during the segment , he also ripped into Murray for , per Oliver , not doing enough to safeguard his miners. story continues below During the episode , Oliver revealed his team had contacted Murray ' s company before the segment aired , and the company had responded with a cease-and-desist letter. Oliver also pointed out that Murray has a history of suing media outlets , the Independent reports , and predicted that his show would soon get a lawsuit of its own. The suit accuses Last Week Tonight of "" execut[ ing ] a meticulously planned attempt to assassinate the character of and reputation of Mr. Robert E. Murray and his companies. "" One of the issues brought up by Oliver was a collapse of one of Murray ' s Utah mines that killed nine people ; Oliver cited a government report finding that unauthorized mining practices were to blame , but Murray ' s lawsuit insists an earthquake was to blame and says Oliver ignored studies supporting that claim. ( Read more John Oliver stories. )"
417,"A ship thought to have disappeared a century ago in an area known as the Bermuda Triangle turned up in the Gobi Desert in Steven Spielberg ' s Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Now it has reportedly been found for real. The SS Cotopaxi set out to carry coal from Charleston , SC , to Havana , Cuba , in 1925 and was lost. Underwater explorer Michael Barnette now believes the ship sits in pieces some 35 miles off the coast of St. Augustine , Fla. , north of the Bermuda Triangle , having been caught up in a sudden storm for which it was ill-equipped. The site , known as the Bear Wreck , was first discovered almost 35 years ago , and USA Today reports it looks like an "" underwater junkyard , "" which perhaps explains why the identity of the vessel there has remained a mystery for so long. story continues below The steam-powered Cotopaxi departed Nov. 29 , 1925 , two days before sending out a distress signal received in Jacksonville , Fla. , notes CBS News. Barnette determined the signal came from the rough location of the Bear Wreck , which has the same overall length as the Cotopaxi , per Newsweek. The measurements of the boilers sync up , too , and one of the valves came from a company based 12 miles from where the Cotopaxi was built in Michigan. Barnette believes the ship was "" doomed "" as it confronted a storm so large it was noted in historical weather records. Insurance records show Cotopaxi ' s wooden hatch covers were in bad shape , meaning water flooding over the ship would have leaked below deck ; the crew of 32 would ' ve "" had no shelter , "" he says. More details are to be shared in the series premiere of Science Channel ' s Shipwreck Secrets on Feb. 9. ( Read more shipwreck stories. )"
418,"On Wednesday afternoon California residents were shocked to learn that a powerful earthquake had supposedly hit the Pacific Ocean about 10 miles off the coast of Santa Barbara. They were probably just as surprised to learn a few minutes later that the magnitude 6.8 quake had actually happened in 1925. The Los Angeles Times reports that a staffer at the California Institute of Technology mistakenly triggered an alert while correcting information about the location of the 92-year-old quake for the US Geological Survey ' s earthquake database. An email was then sent out from the USGS email server claiming that the 1925 quake was set to occur on June 29 , 2025. The Washington Post reports that email alert automatically generated a story on the Times site through an algorithm called Quakebot. story continues below The HuffPost reports that several automated tweets synced to the USGS server were sent out as well , causing confusion. USGS corrected the mistake on Twitter shortly after the initial alert went out and followed up with a more detailed explanation on its website within a half hour. The Times sent out tweets explaining the mistake and blaming the original USGS alert. The paper also tweeted a picture of its front-page coverage of the 1925 Santa Barbara earthquake , which , it reported at the time , demolished or seriously damaged virtually all brick concrete and stone structures in the city ,  "" virtually wrecked "" a famous hotel , and forced the city ' s 30,000 residents to evacuate their homes and sleep outside. ( Read more USGS stories. )"
419,"In the US workplace , we have "" casual "" Fridays ; in Venezuela , they now have "" don ' t bother coming in "" Fridays. President Nicolas Maduro announced that Fridays for the next 60 days will be official state holidays to save energy in a country that ' s been plagued by blackouts and other power issues , Reuters reports. "" We ' ll have long weekends , "" Maduro said Wednesday in a somewhat bizarre "" hours-long "" program on state TV that included "" music , dancing , and giant pictures of late leader Hugo Chavez. "" Maduro hopes to slash energy use by at least 20 % by combining other measures with this one , which Maduro said applies to all public workers who won ' t adversely affect production with their absence , the AP reports. Hotels and malls are being asked to use generators as well , per Gizmodo. story continues below The energy crisis has been brought about by a harsh El Nio-caused drought that ' s crippled the country ' s hydroelectricity-dominated infrastructure and brought water levels at power plants "" to a critical threshold , "" Bloomberg notes. Between 60 % and almost 70 % of the country ' s energy is from hydropower , per the AP and Reuters. But not everyone ' s excited about the prospect of forced three-day weekends. Critics say it ' s a bad time to be shutting things down , considering the country ' s current recession and inflation issues , as well as a dearth of certain medicines and food items. Others wonder what the plan means for operating schools , markets , and hospitals. And some say that people are just going to use electricity while they ' re home , since the cost is so low. "" For Maduro the best way to resolve this crisis is to reduce the country ' s productivity , "" a Caracas city councilor tells Reuters. "" Fridays are free bread and circus. "" ( Maduro ' s relatives have been in trouble with the DEA. )"
420,"The public-address system had been turned off and exits illegally blocked during the horrific fire at a Russian mall that left at least 64 people dead , many of them children , investigators say. Authorities looking into the fire in the Siberian city of Kemerovo say a security guard turned off the PA system after being told of the fire , Reuters reports. It was unclear why , and they plan to bring him in for questioning. In addition , a criminal investigation has been opened ; four people have been detained so far , including fire safety technicians at the mall and the owner of the business where the fire started , the BBC reports. Investigators also plan to bring in the mall ' s owner for questioning. "" Serious violations took place when the mall was being built and when it was functioning , "" says a spokesperson for Russia ' s Investigative Committee. The cause of the fire remains unclear. story continues below Video shows people trapped inside the mall attempting to break down a fire exit door. There are also reports that a fire extinguisher did not work when the blaze initially broke out , that fire alarms stayed silent and sprinklers didn ' t come on , and that security guards kept children from escaping down staircases. An unofficial list circulating on Russian media says more than 20 children died. Heartbreaking details from inside the mall are starting to come out : "" We are burning. I love you all. This is perhaps farewell , "" a 13-year-old girl said on a mobile phone message. A father who lost all three of his daughters says they called to say they were trapped inside a theater as it filled with smoke and the doors were locked. When he tried to save them , rescuers wouldn ' t give him a respiratory mask. "" My daughters were left to burn because of their bloody rules. "" ( Read more Russia stories. )"
421,"After Indonesia ' s Friday earthquake , an air traffic controller sacrificed his life to help get an airplane off the ground. Anthonius Gunawan Agung , 21 , was alone in the control tower at Mutiara Sis Al Jufri Airport in the coastal city of Palu after the 7.5-magnitude temblor sent his colleagues running for their lives , ABC Australia reports. Agung remained to ensure that Batik Air Flight 6321 , with hundreds of people on board , got off the ground. Afterward , the tower trembling , Agung leaped from the fourth floor and suffered injuries that turned out to be fatal. story continues below "" Agung ' s legs , arms and ribs were broken , "" Didiet KS Radityo , an Indonesian air-navigation official , tells the Jarkarta Post. A helicopter was called in to fly Agung to Balikpapan , says Didiet , "" but God had another plan. He passed away 20 minutes before the helicopter arrived. "" Colleagues expressed their appreciation on Twitter , posting photos of Agung and soldiers carrying his covered body past an honor guard , per the BBC. The Indonesian hero is among nearly 400 officially dead in Palu , a city of 380,000 , where the earthquake ' s death toll is expected to rise. ( Read more Indonesia stories. )"
422,"Alaska ' s North Slope was hit Sunday by the most powerful earthquake ever recorded in the region , the state ' s seismologist says. At 6 : 58am Sunday , the magnitude 6.4 earthquake struck an area 42 miles east of Kavik River Camp and 343 miles northeast of Fairbanks , the state ' s second-biggest city , the AP reports. The US Geological Survey says the earthquake had a depth of about 6 miles. State seismologist Mike West tells the Anchorage Daily News that the earthquake was the biggest recorded in the North Slope by a substantial amount. "" This is a very significant event that will take us some time to understand , "" he says. story continues below The previous most powerful quake in the North Slope was in 1995 at magnitude 5.2 , West says. The jump from a 5.2 to Sunday ' s 6.4 is significant because earthquakes rapidly grow in strength as magnitude rises , he says. A magnitude 6.4 earthquake is 15.8 times bigger and 63.1 times stronger than a 5.2 earthquake , according to the US Geological Survey. "" That ' s why at 6.4 this changes how we think about the region , "" West says "" It ' s a little early to say how , but it ' s safe to say this earthquake will cause a re-evaluation of the seismic potential of that area. "" Later Sunday , another magnitude 6.1 earthquake hit at 1 : 15pm near the city of Kaktovik on Alaska ' s North Slope , the US Geological Survey says. ( Read more Alaska stories. )"
423,"Volkswagen is facing new accusations. But they have nothing to do with cheating on emissions tests. Instead , farmers in Mexico are accusing the carmaker of causing a drought. Volkswagen uses so-called hail cannons to protect newly manufactured cars parked outside at its Puebla factory. The cannons shoot sonic booms into the air to purportedly prevent hail formation , CNN reports. Farmers and activists in the region say the cannons are also preventing rain , thereby ruining crops. A Volkswagen spokeswoman says that there is no evidence that the cannons reduce rainfall , but that the company will stop using them on automatic mode and , instead , use them only when "" meteorological conditions determine imminent fall of hail. "" story continues below But one local official tells Agence France-Presse that any use of the cannons is "" unacceptable. "" "" They are not respecting their neighbors ' request to definitively stop using hail cannons , "" says Rafael Ramirez. "" The company can take other measures to protect its cars , but people here can ' t live off anything but their land. "" Volkswagen says that it does plan to install "" anti-hail nets "" over some 150 acres. Despite Volkswagen ' s apparent belief that the cannons prevent hail and the farmers ' belief that they prevent rain , the scientific evidence is lacking on both counts , the Washington Post notes. A 2006 paper in a German metrological journal calls hail cannons "" useless. "" Farmers want Volkswagen to pay some $ 4 million in compensation , per AFP. ( Read more Volkswagen stories. )"
424,"As the victims of Thursday ' s San Bruno fire mourn their losses , Pacific Gas &amp; Electric reps say they still don  t know what caused a high-pressure gas pipeline to rupture. But could PG&E itself be to blame ? The company has been involved in almost half of California  s major natural gas pipeline accidents over the last decade , the San Francisco Chronicle reports. PG&E owns about 40 % of the pipelines in the state and serves the most ratepayers and the largest territory. story continues below PG&E pipelines were involved in 43 of the 87 accidents over the past 10 years , but 11 of those were caused by people digging into buried lines. Natural forces including floods and earthquakes , as well as problems like bad welds , corrosion , and equipment malfunctions , can also cause ruptures. Investigators will look at the pipeline  s age , maintenance history , and operations. Said a state assemblyman , "" State and federal investigators need to determine if PG&E personnel had the proper training and equipment and whether or not this disaster could have been prevented.  ( Read more San Bruno explosion stories. )"
425,"Greta Thunberg has warned about the environmental perils of climate change. Now , bank regulators are sending up the red flag on possible financial consequences. The warnings come courtesy of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco , which put out a series of 19 papers , compiled by more than three dozen outside experts , that the New York Times calls "" one of the most specific and dire accountings of the dangers posed to businesses and communities in the United States. "" In a foreword , the head of the San Francisco Fed ' s community development division calls on banks and other firms with a hand in local improvements to "" take a leadership role in preparing vulnerable regions most at risk for a ' new abnormal , ' which the Times says has already arrived. story continues below Among the ways drastic financial measures could emerge : Banks could turn away borrowers in flood-prone areas , and property values could plummet. That latter consequence could also have a ripple effect in poor communities , since as the value of real estate drops , so , too , does the tax base  meaning funds for flood-prevention initiatives could dry up. The researchers ' suggestion ? Offer incentives to banks and businesses trying to fend off flood disasters in communities. It ' s not the first time the San Francisco Fed has gotten tough on this topic , which has become increasingly polarizing : In March , the branch put out a letter in which it noted "" the volatility induced by climate change and the efforts to adapt to new conditions and to limit or mitigate climate change are ... increasingly relevant considerations. "" ( Read more climate change stories. )"
426,"North Korea ' s main ally says it "" firmly opposes "" Pyongyang ' s purported hydrogen bomb test and is monitoring the environment along its border with the North near the test site. China plans to summon North Korea ' s ambassador in Beijing to the Foreign Ministry to lodge a strong protest , spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters at a daily briefing Wednesday. China made a similar protest after the North ' s last nuclear test in 2013. Wednesday ' s reported test was performed in defiance of the international community and in contravention of its earlier denuclearization promises , Hua said. "" North Korea should stop taking any actions [ that ] would worsen the situation on the Korean peninsula , "" she told reporters. story continues below Environment bureau technicians were monitoring conditions near the border , but air quality near the bomb site was within the normal range , Hua said , adding that in the longer term , North Korea should return to long-stalled six-nation denuclearization talks hosted by China. The test was also denounced by the European Union and South Korea , which called it a "" grave provocation , "" the BBC reports. Pyongyang , meanwhile , said the test was a complete success that has made the country an advanced nuclear nation. "" It is just to have H-bomb as self-defense against the US having numerous and humongous nuclear weapons , "" a North Korean state broadcast said , per the Guardian. ( Here ' s more on the science of Pyongyang ' s H-bomb claim. )"
427,"When it comes to infamous greenhouse gases , methane may be scooting ahead of carbon dioxide on the list of villains. First came last week ' s attention-grabbing news that the release of the gas by way of thawing permafrost could cost the global economy $ 60 trillion. Now comes a study that finds that methane , described by the Christian Science Monitor as a more potent heat trapper than carbon dioxide , is seeping into the atmosphere in another way : via earthquakes. German researchers say they ' re the first to prove the "" direct connection between earthquakes and methane seepage , "" a feat they achieved by analyzing sediment cores taken in 2007 from the Arabian Sea off Pakistan. story continues below What the sediment revealed : methane 5.2 feet beneath the sea floor , a presence the researchers saw as indicative of some major event. LiveScience reports they were able to date the introduction of the methane to between 1916 and 1962 , and , using other indicators , ultimately attributed its release to a 8.1-magnitude earthquake that hit in 1945. The Monitor notes that by modeling the current seepage , they calculated that 261 million cubic feet of methane has seeped toward the surface since. What does it mean for global warming ? The jury is still out : "" We simply can ' t tell yet , if and how much our findings affect climate models , "" says the lead researcher. "" Maybe it turns out to be important , maybe it doesn ' t. We ' ll see. "" ( Read more methane stories. )"
428,"Bite marks on dinosaur bones aren ' t often found  but they recently turned up in multitudes at the Mygatt-Moore Quarry in Colorado , and researchers say the find could indicate certain carnivorous dinos were cannibals. According to a study published in PLOS One Wednesday , scientists found that , of the 2,368 bones collected at the quarry over an entire season , 684 of them ( or nearly 30 % ) had bite marks from meat-eating theropods ; usually that figure hovers around 5 % . "" To find 30 % was really nuts , "" study lead author Stephanie Drumheller-Horton tells New Scientist. Bites on bones of body parts that didn ' t have the best meat suggest that carnivores "" late to the party ""  ie , scavengers , not predators  took what they could get when they stumbled on carcasses in desperate times , like during fires or drought , per Smithsonian. story continues below The scientists believe environmental conditions may have enabled this scavenging to happen : There ' s evidence lots of water evaporated during the dry season in this region during Jurassic times , meaning dinosaur carcasses would ' ve been exposed "" for a pretty long time "" on the ground before the rains came again and buried the bones under sediment , Drumheller-Horton says. She adds , "" We ' ve been joking that the site probably smelled terrible. "" Evidence suggests that Allosaurus may have been the carnivores doing the eating , though it ' s possible other known ( or unknown ) large dinosaurs could also have been involved. And while a large number of the bones found with bite marks belonged to the herbivore Apatosaurus , ones belonging to Allosaurus were found with bite marks , too  meaning it appears the dinosaur ate its own. ( Read more discoveries stories. )"
429,"If new protocols are successfully developed and the change isn ' t blocked by court challenges , one of Oklahoma ' s 49 condemned inmates will soon become the first person in the US legally executed with nitrogen gas. The state  which started exploring the use of the inert gas after a botched lethal injection in 2014 halted executions  says it has made nitrogen inhalation its primary method of execution and will be using the gas when executions resume , the BBC reports. State Attorney General Mike Hunter announced the change Wednesday , saying nitrogen is easy to obtain , causes a painless death , and "" requires no complex medical procedures. "" No other state uses the method. story continues below Dale Baich , a lawyer for Oklahoma inmates challenging execution protocols , called for total transparency from the state. "" This method has never been used before and is experimental , "" he said , per the Washington Post. "" Oklahoma is once again asking us to trust it as officials learn-on-the-job ' through a new execution procedure. "" Nitrogen execution will involve placing a mask over a person ' s nose and mouth to flood their lungs with nitrogen , causing them to die from lack of oxygen in a death that Slate notes could be "" mildly euphoric , "" similar to the "" raptures "" experienced by deep-sea divers low on oxygen. ( A lawyer says an execution attempt in Alabama last month was "" gory "" and "" botched. "" )"
430,"What ' s been called "" the biggest disaster in the history of the music business "" now has an even longer list of victims. A New York Times story documented the destruction of master recordings in a 2008 fire that burned a Universal Music Group vault , with 100 or so artists apparently affected. Now Jody Rosen is reporting for the Times that more than 700 new names have been added to that list , and it ' s a jaw-dropping compilation including not only many more famous musicians , but also comedians like Rodney Dangerfield and Chris Rock , showbiz luminaries like Bob Hope and Groucho Marx , and even Martin Luther King Jr. , recorded giving a keynote address in the ' 60s. Rosen got his hands on internal and legal documents , which revealed the additional names that appeared as part of UMG ' s "" Project Phoenix , "" an initiative to find duplicates or replacement copies of files it believed destroyed. story continues below The "" extraordinary cross-section of genres and periods "" includes names we all know : Peggy Lee , Dolly Parton , The Who , Peter Frampton , Cher , Styx , Squeeze , Bell Biv DeVoe , and Busta Rhymes , just to name a very few. Many of the artists only found out about the fire recently , with UMG often simply informing them the masters couldn ' t be found , per the Times. Canadian singer-songwriter Bryan Adams , best known for hits like "" Summer of ' 69 "" and "" Heaven , "" said when he tried to get the master for his Reckless album in 2013 , UMG couldn ' t produce it  but he didn ' t know about the fire until two weeks ago , when he read the Times article. Check out the updated list of names here. ( There ' s now a lawsuit against UMG involving the estates of Tupac , Tom Petty , and more. )"
431,"Large parts of Afghanistan , India , and Pakistan were shaken by a powerful earthquake on Monday. The quake had a magnitude of 7.5 and was centered near Jarm in northeast Afghanistan , according to the US Geological Survey. The quake was felt many miles away in cities including Lahore , Pakistan , where Supreme Court justices were among those running into the street as buildings shook for up to two minutes , NBC News reports. In India , the quake was felt strongly at least as far south as Delhi , and while electricity and phone services have been hit in some areas , there have been no immediate reports of deaths or serious injuries , the Times of India reports. story continues below In Pakistan , reports of deaths and building collapses are beginning to come in from northern parts of the country and a state of emergency has been declared in some areas , according to the Express Tribune. In Afghanistan , casualty figures are unknown , but the quake could have had a devastating effect : NBC notes that the quake came a few days after rain , meaning the region ' s mud-built homes are in greater danger of collapse. "" There are reports of casualties and destruction "" in remote parts of the northern province of Badakhshan , where the quake was centered , a regional official tells the AP. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
432,"Alberta declared a state of emergency Wednesday as crews frantically held back wind-whipped wildfires that have already torched 1,600 homes and other buildings in Canada ' s main oil sands city of Fort McMurray , forcing more than 80,000 residents to flee. Whole neighborhoods have burned , but an Alberta Emergency Management Agency spokesman says flames are being kept from the downtown area thanks to the "" herculean ' "" efforts of firefighters , the AP reports. Alberta Premier Rachel Notley flew up to survey the situation , while officials in the evacuation center had to bolt to the south of the city as flames edged closer. There were haunting images of scorched trucks , charred homes , and telephone poles , burned out from the bottom up , hanging in the wires like wooden crosses. story continues below The blaze effectively cut Fort McMurray in two late Tuesday , forcing about 10,000 north to the safety of oil sands work camps. The other 70,000 or so were sent streaming south in a bumper-to-bumper line of cars and trucks. One resident tells the AP that evacuating almost felt like an apocalypse. "" We had to literally drive through smoke and fire , vehicles littered all over the sides of the road , and we had to drive as fast as we could and breathe as little as we could because the smoke was so intense and we could feel the heat from inside the vehicle , "" she says. The Edmonton Journal reports that on Wednesday night , winds expanded the fire and the evacuation zone , forcing hundreds of people to flee the blaze for a second time. ( Read more Canada stories. )"
433,"Exact location , unknown. Size , off the charts. That ' s a newly built radio antenna in China that could have military applications but comes with possible health risks , CBS News reports. The Wireless Electromagnetic Method project was built over 13 years on a huge tract of land  1,400 square miles , or nearly five times the space filled by New York City  and officially exists to spot minerals and earthquakes. But the South China Morning Post says its extremely low-frequency radio waves can also reach deep-sea submarines , lowering their risk of having to come up to receive messages. story continues below The project follows China ' s first station for so-called ELF waves in 2009 ; a year later , China communicated with one of its nuclear subs in deep water , making it the world ' s third nation to have such submarine transmissions ( along with the US and Russia ) . But the World Health Organization warns that even short-term exposure to these waves at high levels can affect human nerves and muscles and alter the central nervous system. WHO recommended creating exposure guidelines and doing further study , while a researcher in Beijing asked his nation ' s Ministry of Ecology and Environment to review the tower ' s environmental effects. That request was rejected. ( China has also built a stunning 34-mile bridge. )"
434,"The latest trouble to hit Syria : Fires , apparently started deliberately , are blazing along the border with Turkey. Turkish firefighters are battling the flames as strong winds caused them to cross the border and spread into Turkey , the AP reports. Turkey ' s state-run TV blames Syrian forces for starting the fires at four different points in an effort to take away the shelter of rebels in the area. In a new interview with a Turkish newspaper , Syrian President Bashar al-Assad says Turkey is "" a party to all the bloody acts in Syria "" because of its support for the rebels , Al Jazeera reports. ( Read more Turkey stories. )"
435,"Wildfires that swept through Syria last year were intentionally lit , and now 24 individuals linked to setting them have been executed , per the country ' s Ministry of Justice. Al Jazeera notes that while executions aren ' t uncommon in Syria , so many being killed at once is unusual. It ' s not clear where the executions happened or how they were carried out. Those put to death weren ' t accused of arson but of "" terrorist acts that led to death and damage to state infrastructure and public and private property through the use of flammable material , "" the ministry noted in its statement. story continues below CNN reports four other individuals who were tied to the fires were given temporary hard-labor stints , while nearly a dozen more were sentenced to life doing the same , per the ministry. Five underage perpetrators also received jail time , with sentences of up to 12 years. The ministry says the perpetrators admitted planning and setting the fires , which started in August 2020 and continued "" intermittently "" through October last year. They burned through hundreds of towns in three provinces , killing three and damaging nearly 400 homes. The blazes also charred more than 25,000 acres of land and damaged farm equipment , livestock , and infrastructure. The suspects were IDed and arrested last year. Human rights activists are "" shocked "" by the severity of the punishment , reports the New York Times. "" The idea that 24 people were executed in relation to wildfires just smacks of the farce that [ President ] Bashar al-Assad has made of the justice system over the last decade , "" says Sara Kayyali of Human Rights Watch. She notes that those accused of terrorism are often just people who oppose the government , and they ' re sent to a special court where they ' re pressured to confess to their alleged crimes and aren ' t given adequate legal representation. "" We have seen the counterterrorism law and this court be used to stifle dissent , to send hundreds of people to their deaths , "" Kayyali says. ( Read more Syria stories. )"
436,"A new Pentagon report says wildfires , drought , and flooding fueled by climate change are threatening two-thirds of key US military bases , the Military Times reports. Posted online Friday , the report looks at 79 mission-critical installations across the Army , Air Force , and Navy , but not the Marine Corps. The report says recurrent flooding threatens 53 of the 79 bases , while drought is affecting 43 and wildfires 36 ; other bases are projected to face similar threats in the future. "" It is relevant to point out that ' future ' in this analysis means only 20 years in the future , "" the report says , per Politico. "" Projected changes will likely be more pronounced at the mid-century mark ; vulnerability analyses to mid- and late-century would likely reveal an uptick in vulnerabilities ( if adaptation strategies are not implemented ) . "" story continues below Critics are slamming the report for lacking legally required specifics like cost estimates for base upgrades ; they ' re also asking why Marine Corps bases were left out. "" The report reads like an introductory primer and carries about as much value as a phonebook , "" says Sen. Jack Reed. The Pentagon says its goal was to focus on installations where current US missions are most jeopardized : "" By using this alternative approach , we are able to highlight where there are operational risks , "" per a Pentagon spokeswoman. Either way , Vox says the report  which echoes earlier Pentagon warnings about climate change threatening US military effectiveness  will likely have little impact under "" climate change skeptics "" like President Trump and Senate Armed Services Committee Chair Jim Inhofe. ( For more climate news , see the latest ocean measurements. )"
437,"There ' s a whole lot of shaking going on underneath the most active volcano in the lower 48 states , according to the US Geological Survey. The USGS says that while there ' s no sign that Mount St. Helens is going to blow its top any time soon , there has been a swarm of low-magnitude earthquakes at the volcano in Washington state since the start of the year and the quakes have increased in frequency to almost 40 a week , CNN reports. "" The magma chamber is likely imparting its own stresses on the crust around and above it as the system slowly recharges , "" the USGS says. "" The pressure drives fluids through cracks , producing the small quakes. "" The quakes are deep and of very small magnitude  the largest measured was just 1.2  meaning they haven ' t been felt at the surface. story continues below The quakes are a sign that the volcano is still alive and will erupt again someday , but the next eruption is probably "" years to decades down the road , "" Seth Moran , the scientist in charge at the USGS Cascades Volcano Observatory in Vancouver , tells LiveScience. Washington. Scientists haven ' t detected changes in gas emissions or other danger signs at the volcano , where a May 18 , 1980 eruption killed 57 people. That eruption was preceded by more than 10,000 small quakes. How long it will take to recharge before the next eruption , and what could trigger it , is one of the "" big questions of volcanology , "" Wired notes. ( These Australian scientists were looking for lobsters when they found four undersea volcanoes. )"
438,"Firefighters don ' t come any more dedicated than Tim Tawater , who was off duty and driving to his daughter ' s birthday party on Saturday when he spotted clouds of smoke and followed them to a burning home. He was the first firefighter on the scene in the Nashville suburb of White House and , after conducting a primary search to make sure nobody was in the home , went back inside to rescue a dog that ran in as he approached it , the Tennessean reports. A neighbor recorded the anxious moments before Tawater emerged from the blazing house carrying the 85-pound dog. Tawater took off soon afterward and was only identified when a relative saw video of the rescue online. story continues below "" If someone has a dog that big in the house , it means that dog is family , "" Tawater tells the Tennessean. "" I couldn ' t do anything about the property , but I could save that dog. I thought it was worth a chance. "" Tawater , 49 , has been with the Nashville Fire Department for 20 years and says he hopes the attention dies down soon. "" I ' d rather no one know it was me. That ' s why I left before everyone got there on Saturday , "" he says. "" Firefighters don ' t do what we do for ourselves. We do it because we want to help others. "" The homeowners , who had been away celebrating a wedding anniversary , met Tawater and thanked him this week. "" He didn ' t have to go into a house that was on fire , "" Brandon Gorley tells WSMV. "" Deeply , deeply appreciate him being there. "" ( Read more firefighters stories. )"
439,"Flint is still contending with its long-standing water issues , and now there ' s a new mess in the beleaguered Michigan city. MLive.com reports that "" months after dire warnings "" of reaching a "" critical point , "" 2 million gallons of raw sewage ended up in the Flint River Sunday , with a city official on Tuesday blaming a "" flash flood event "" at the city ' s Beecher Road wastewater treatment plant. After a weekend of heavy rains , wastewater "" settling "" tanks reportedly overflowed , sending untreated sewage into the soil around the tanks and into a storm drain that dumps into the river. A public advisory was issued , warning people to stay away from the river due to possibly elevated bacteria levels. Now , the finger-pointing has begun , with the head of Flint ' s Department of Public Works laying the blame on the inclement weather , MLive notes. story continues below "" The condition of infrastructure and needed capital investment at the wastewater treatment plant had nothing to do with the recent discharge , "" Rob Bincsik said in a Thursday statement , instead citing the "" duration and intensity of the rain. "" He added that treatment plant staffers did everything right , but they "" are really at the mercy of Mother Nature in situations such as this. "" His infrastructure comment was in reference to $ 30 million in upgrades that he and others have said that particular plant needs. Just last week , WALB had reported on the "" good news "" of fishermen , boaters , and kayakers returning to the river after a relative lack of recent sewage spills. Meanwhile , Bincsik ' s statement says there are indeed high bacteria levels in the river from the rain , but not from the plant incident. ( Read more Flint , Michigan stories. )"
440,"Police say four boys are responsible for the blaze that turned Eugene ' s historic Civic Stadium to ash in Oregon. Though five boys were spotted near the stadium ' s press box before the fire , only four , ages 10 to 12 , will be charged with first- and second-degree arson , criminal mischief , burglary , reckless burning , and reckless endangering. The fifth boy , whose parents notified police , left the scene before the fire , police tell NBC News. Two of the boys also face charges related to a trash bin fire , reports KMTR. story continues below Still , a detective says the blaze probably wasn ' t started intentionally. "" They were messing around , and they were lighting some debris on fire and just being kids , "" he says , per the Oregonian , adding the boys fled the scene on bikes when they couldn ' t extinguish the flames and that there ' s more to figure out. "" I don ' t know if you ' ve talked to a 10- or 12-year-old boy recently , "" he adds. "" You don ' t get a whole lot of rational information out of them. "" Meanwhile , the Eugene Civic Alliance , which purchased the stadium for $ 4.1 million in April to build a new stadium and field house , says the project will go ahead as planned. The facility is expected to open in three to five years. ( Read more arson stories. )"
441,"Dozens of scientists were shocked to find a dramatic increase in plant life around the world over the past 33 years instead of the global-warming-related "" browning "" they expected to find in their analysis of satellite data , Australia ' s ABC reports. According to a press release , a study published Monday in Nature Climate Change found "" significant greening "" over 25 % to 50 % of Earth ' s plant-bearing surface ( some 4 % did grow browner ) . "" The greening ... reported in this study is equivalent to adding a green continent about two-times the size of mainland USA , "" says Dr. Zaichun Zhu , the study ' s lead author. The reason for the greening is what is known as the carbon fertilization effect : an increase in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere means plants , which use the gas in photosynthesis , grow faster , Science Alert reports. story continues below In what ' s good news for plants , there ' s currently more CO2 in the atmosphere than at any time in at least the past 500,000 years. "" This is a snapshot of humans ' global influence on the functioning of the entire global biosphere , "" study coauthor Dr. Pep Canadell tells ABC. However , what ' s good news for plants isn ' t necessarily good news for anything else on the planet , as Canadell cites fossil fuel burning and deforestation as "" almost exclusively "" causing the rise of CO2 in the atmosphere. CO2 emissions are the main cause of climate change , the other effects of which  drought , rising seas , deadly weather  far outweigh the benefits of what scientists say is a temporary increase in plant life. ( Carbon dioxide might also be making us dumber at the office. )"
442,"The Giant Buddha of Leshan hasn ' t dipped its toes in the Yangtze River since 1949. But it ' s doing so now that China is experiencing its worst flooding in 70 years , per the BBC. Sandbags are being used to protect the 1,200-year-old World Heritage Site , including a statue standing more than 200 feet tall , carved out of a rock face. But there are other concerns. More than 100,000 people have been evacuated from areas along the upper reaches of the Yangtze , where some monitoring stations are expected to see water levels exceeding "" guaranteed "" flood protection levels by some 16 feet , per Reuters and Al Jazeera. story continues below On Wednesday , the Three Gorges Dam spanning the river is expected to see its highest water inflows since it was completed in 2006. The facility raised discharge volumes on Tuesday , as the water level in its reservoir has been more than 30 feet above the official warning level for more than a month. Sichuan province raised its emergency response to the highest level on Tuesday following weeks of heavy rain. There ' s "" no sign of it ending soon , "" per the BBC , which reports "" flood alerts are in place for provinces around the Yangtze , Yellow , Hai , Songhua , and Liao rivers , with warnings of possible landslides. "" ( Read more China stories. )"
443,"Yesterday the NAACP issued a series of tweets in response to the spate of black churches going up in flames across the South , calling for "" black churches to take necessary precautions "" and promoting the #WhoIsBurningBlackChurches hashtag. Hours later , the Mount Zion AME Church in Greeleyville , SC , became the seventh on this list after a blaze that took more than two hours to put out and gutted the building , fire officials tell NBC News. Even more distressing to the community : This same church was torched in 1995 by KKK members , notes the AP. "" That was a tough thing to see , "" a county councilman says. "" It is hurting those people again. "" After the church burned 20 years ago , the two Klan members responsible were sent to prison for almost 20 years each , and then-President Bill Clinton came to speak in Greeleyville. story continues below "" We cannot let someone come into our democratic home , the home of our faith , and start torching our houses of worship , "" he said at the time , per the AP. Investigators were on the scene this morning , combing through debris and taking pictures , though a federal law enforcement source not authorized to discuss the case publicly tells the AP that arson wasn ' t the cause , based on preliminary findings. Another possibility that ' s been floated : The church caught fire after a lightning strike ( there were storms in the area last night , NBC notes ) . Either way , "" it ' s gone , "" state Rep. Cezar McKnight tells the Post and Courier. "" South Carolina has been through a lot the last two weeks and we ' ve made the best of a terrible situation. I would hate for this to be something somebody did on purpose to try to poison the love and fellowship. "" ( An example of that love : Charleston ' s Emanuel AME Church ' s first service since the shootings. )"
444,"Authorities are desperately searching for a 4-year-old Indiana boy who was carried away by a flooded creek on Thursday , CBS News reports. A witness saw Owen Jones get pulled downstream by Deer Creek in Delphi and told authorities , triggering a search by drone , boat , and sonar. But it switched to a recovery effort around noon on Friday , authorities say. Owen was likely playing in Riley Park , where the creek passes through , when rain-swollen water and a strong current caught him by surprise. story continues below "" It wouldn ' t be uncommon to find people wading or swimming in the water here ,  Lt. Dan Dulin tells WLFI. "" I feel like it ' s probably just the kids misunderstood or just didn ' t realize how the conditions today or yesterday were different than what they saw the last time. "" With the water level down about a foot since Friday , Dulin says the search will continue "" whether it ' s by foot or small boat or kayak. "" Meanwhile , people have gathered to comfort the family as they brace for the news. "" More than anybody else they  re looking for a quick resolution ,  says Dulin. "" They understand the situation that we have. "" ( In related news , a wife ' s tragic drowning led to charges against the husband. )"
445,"Law enforcement officers and volunteers have flooded the area around a North Carolina home in the search for a 3-year-old girl whose mother says she vanished after she was put to bed Sunday night. Mariah Kay Woods was reported missing around 6 : 45am Monday after her mother discovered she was gone from their home in Jacksonville , Onslow County , People reports. "" My last memory of her was feeding her and putting her to bed , "" mother Kristy Woods told reporters. "" I told her I loved her and she loved me. "" Woods said her daughter wears leg braces to help her walk , meaning she would have been unlikely to wander off alone. story continues below An Amber Alert was issued early Monday and the FBI has now joined the search , ABC reports. Wooded areas around the home have been searched and neighbors have been asked to thoroughly check their yards and sheds for any sign of a little girl. Mariah is described as white , 2 feet , 9 inches tall and 30 pounds , with brown hair and blue eyes. WRAL reports that the FBI has released surveillance images of a woman and a little girl taken Monday morning in a Walmart in Morehead City , NC , around 40 miles away from Jacksonville. Authorities are trying to determine whether the girl , whose face is seen in profile , is Mariah. ( Read more missing child stories. )"
446,"Not yet terrified by climate change ? You ' re in for a rude awakening via two new reports. The first from the World Bank finds rising global temperatures will force 100 million more people into extreme poverty by 2030 , and those in the poorest regions  sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia  will be hardest hit. The second from Climate Central notes as many as 760 million people may be left homeless by rising sea levels caused by a temperature increase of 7.2 degrees Fahrenheit from carbon emissions. An increase of only 3.6 degrees could reduce the number of people affected to 130 million over centuries. Asian cities , including Shanghai , Hong Kong , and Mumbai , are particularly at risk , though the US is the most threatened nation outside of Asia. About 25 million Americans could find their homes submerged , reports CNN. story continues below Already 702 million people , or 9.6 % of the world ' s population , are in extreme poverty , per the Guardian. Yet in Africa , food prices could rise 12 % in the next 15 years as global crop yields could reduce by 5 % by 2030 and 30 % by 2080. Cases of diarrhea and stunting will also rise , while a global temperature increase of 3.6 degrees or more could put another 150 million people at risk of malaria , per Reuters. At the same time , those affected by droughts could jump 5 % to 17 % by 2030 and 50 % to 90 % by 2080. The report notes some $ 1 trillion for fast , climate-informed development is needed , along with continued efforts to reduce global emissions , but "" ending poverty and fighting climate change cannot be done in isolation , "" a World Bank economist says. "" The two will be much more easily achieved if they are addressed together. "" ( Read more climate change stories. )"
447,"Pharmaceutical executives mocked their customers as hillbillies , disparaging them in rhymes even as the companies poured pills into Appalachia and opioid addiction rates and overdoses rose. One email told of Jed , for example , "" a poor mountaineer "" who "" barely kept his habit fed. "" Another rhyme referred to Kentucky as "" OxyContinville. "" An email showed a box of breakfast cereal with "" smack "" placed under the words "" OxyContin for kids. "" A lawyer for one West Virginia county said the mocking showed a culture of contempt for the people being sold the pills. The revelations came in the West Virginia trial of pharmaceutical firms charged with illegally flooding the state with opioids , the Guardian reports. The national distribution companies on trial are AmerisourceBergen , Cardinal Health , and McKesson , per the Huntington Herald-Dispatch. story continues below Chris Zimmerman of AmerisourceBergen wrote one of the emails after Florida moved against pill mills in 2011. "" Watch out Georgia and Alabama , "" he told colleagues , "" there will be a max exodus of Pillbillies heading north. "" It was Zimmerman ' s job to make sure the company stopped delivering opioids to any pharmacies selling suspiciously large amounts of the drugs. He testified that he regretted the email but described it as "" a reflection of the environment at the time , "" per the Guardian. The county lawyer called it "" a pattern of conduct by those people charged with protecting our community. "" Zimmerman was accused in court of not following company policy by halting deliveries during investigations and not reporting suspicions to the Drug Enforcement Administration. "" We  re a company , we ' re not an enforcement agency , "" Zimmerman answered , "" and we ' re not a regulatory agency. "" ( Read more opioids stories. )"
448,"Hurricane Dorian has now moved away from the Bahamas , leaving chaos , devastation , and at least 20 dead behind it. Bahamas Health Minister Duane Sands tells NBC that the death toll is expected to rise significantly when searches of hard-hit remote areas are completed. "" We ' ve had an absolute horrendous tragedy , numbers of lives lost , and we have not completed the door-to-door , "" the minister says. The hurricane , which hit the Bahamas as a Category 5 storm , is believed to have destroyed or severely damaged around half the homes on Abaco and Grand Bahama islands , which are home to around 70,000 people , reports the AP. Prime Minister Hubert Minnis said Wednesday that the storm had caused "" generational devastation "" in the islands , where rescue crews have yet to reach some areas and survivors are desperate for food , medicine , and water. story continues below Minnis said health workers have been sent to the islands , along with hundreds of police and marines , to restore order amid reports of widespread looting , Bloomberg reports. "" Bahamians are distressed that anyone would loot and further the suffering of those affected by this tragedy , "" Minnis said. "" Be warned , we will prosecute looters and other law breakers to the full extent of the law. "" The US Coast Guard and the British Royal Marines have brought dozens of critically injured survivors to a rescue center in the capital , Nassau , the Guardian reports. "" I guess you would call it a British protectorate , but I will do a lot , "" President Trump told reporters Wednesday. "" We ' re waiting for a call  they  re having a lot of trouble with the telephones over there as you can imagine  from the prime minister and we ' re helping a lot. "" ( Read more Hurricane Dorian stories. )"
449,"Ride-sharing , bike-sharing , and now scooter-sharing : Rentable electric scooters are popping up all over the place , including Los Angeles , San Francisco , and at least 20 other cities across the US. Millions of dollars in funding have been poured in to a number of scooter startups including Bird , Lime , and Spin , and the dockless two-wheeled vehicles are proving popular with users. Public officials , not so much ; NBC News reports that Santa Monica officials were "" flummoxed "" when hundreds of e-scooters appeared in the city with little advance notice. And some residents are concerned , too : At a public meeting this month in Santa Monica , one concerned citizen said pedestrians have become like "" bowling pins "" as users , often teens , ride scooters erratically on sidewalks and then leave them strewn about wherever. story continues below In a battle similar to the one that has been raging between scooter companies and city officials in San Francisco , Santa Monica filed criminal charges against Bird for regulation violations including operating without a business license ; the company has agreed to a list of demands and will pay $ 300,000 in fines. But that ' s not much for a company that has raised more than $ 400 million since its founding last year , and scooter startups don ' t seem likely to go anywhere as investors and tech columnists alike jump on board. Sources tell CNN Bird is now valued at $ 2 billion , and Uber has teamed with Lime , the second scooter startup to be valued at more than a billion dollars. In LA , particularly , many believe scooters will be a big hit as an easy ( users can rent one with a smartphone app ) and cheap ( 15 cents per minute ) way to get around the city without a car. ( Read more scooters stories. )"
450,"If 12 boys and their coach are going to get out of a flooded cave in northern Thailand before monsoon rains make their situation worse , it is going to have to happen soon , authorities say. The government says the boys are receiving crash courses in swimming and diving from rescue teams , though the 2.5-mile route to safety through dark , treacherous tunnels takes even the best divers around three hours , reports Reuters. The governor of Chiang Rai province , Narongsak Osatanakorn , says the youth soccer team has been practicing with diving masks but he ' s not sure if they have attempted any dives yet , the Guardian reports. He says no attempt to extract the boys will be made Wednesday , though the weather will remain ideal for a rescue later in the week. story continues below Rainy season is only just beginning in the area , meaning the boys could be trapped for up to four months if authorities decide it is too dangerous to extract them , though the military describes four months as a worst-case scenario. In video released by Thai Navy SEALs , the boys , aged from 11 to 16 , appear healthy , the BBC reports. The boys , who have been in the cave since June 23 , have been provided with supplies and the military says two SEALs will remain with them at all times. To keep water levels as low as possible , teams of soldiers and other rescuers have been pumping water out and building weirs across creeks to divert water away from the cave system , the Bangkok Post reports. Teams are also trying to find cave shafts that could offer another escape route. ( Read more Thailand stories. )"
451,"The death toll from the devastating earthquake that hit Haiti Saturday has risen to almost 2,000 , but authorities haven ' t given up hopes of finding survivors. On Tuesday , 16 people were found alive in the rubble of a building in the southern town of Brefet , the Haitian Times reports. Another nine were found dead in the collapsed building , the former regional office of a UN peacekeeping mission. Search and rescue efforts , however , have been disrupted by Tropical Storm Grace , which passed over Haiti Monday and Tuesday , the New York Times reports. Heavy rains added to the misery for people sleeping in fields because their homes had been destroyed or damaged. story continues below Officials say the 7.2 quake destroyed or damaged thousands of homes , leaving around 30,000 families homeless. Officials raised the death toll Tuesday to 1,941 , with almost 10,000 injured Carl-Henry Petit-Frre , a field manager for Save the Children , says children orphaned by the quake are going hungry , the AP reports. "" I see children crying on the street , people asking us for food , but we are low on food ourselves as well , "" he says. Petit-Frre says organizations are doing what they can , but they desperately need supplies including food and fresh water. The US military says seven helicopters and eight Coast Guard cutters are on the way to assist USAID disaster response teams. ( Read more Haiti stories. )"
452,"The water war is apparently over : Calleguas Municipal Water District says it has reached a tentative agreement with Tom Selleck after accusing the actor of stealing water from Ventura County to use on his 60-acre estate and avocado farm in Hidden Valley , Calif. , amid a drought. The details of the deal are under wraps and have yet to be OKed by the water district ' s board , rep Eric Bergh tells the Los Angeles Times. The board will take a look on Wednesday , but "" we ' re happy about it , "" Bergh says. "" It ' s good news. "" NBC News reports the suit the water district filed against the actor wanted damages plus reimbursement of the $ 21,685.55 it spent on a private investigator. story continues below At issue seems not to be the taking of the water , but the transport of it. The complaint explains that , beginning in late Sept. 2013 , a man in a water tender truck was seen pulling water from a specific fire hydrant in the city of Thousand Oaks and then traveling to Selleck ' s ranch. The water from that hydrant was legally purchased over the last two years by a construction company , which had the right to sell it to a third party. But Bergh says the movement of water between water districts is illegal ; police tell NBC News Selleck didn ' t commit any crime. ( Read more Tom Selleck stories. )"
453,"A wastewater reservoir in Manatee County , Fla. , started leaking last week , and over the weekend , officials declared a state of emergency and warned that a "" 20-foot wall of water "" could be unleashed. That ' s what would happen within minutes if walls around the retention pond are fully breached , the acting county administrator said ; as the Tampa Bay Times reports , efforts to repair the breach causing the leak have so far been unsuccessful. "" What we ' re looking at now is trying to prevent and respond to , if need be , a real catastrophic flood situation , "" Gov. Ron DeSantis said Sunday , per CNN. The entire Piney Point reservoir site , about 20 miles south of Tampa , and surrounding areas has been evacuated. It ' s not clear what caused the leak , but a tear in the decades-old plastic lining of the pond is said to be one possible culprit , the Guardian reports. story continues below There are more than 306 million gallons of polluted saltwater still in the reservoir , which holds wastewater from phosphate fertilizer manufacturing , Weather.com reports. There ' s also sea water , rainwater , seepage water , and dredging material in the acidic stew , USA Today reports. That amount of water could form the aforementioned wall in "" minutes , "" the administrator says. The Florida National Guard is bringing in pumps to get that level down by pumping the water into local waterways. Experts are concerned the water will ultimately flow into Tampa Bay , hurting the local ecosystem. While the gypsum stack the reservoir sits on is mildly radioactive , officials say the water is not ; but it is high in phosphorus and nitrogen , which can cause algae blooms and red tide. Local drinking water is reportedly safe , according to officials. ( Read more Florida stories. )"
454,"The words of Greta Thunberg were still echoing at the UN Climate Action Summit as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released its latest report , describing evidence of climate change from one pole to the other , in ocean depths and mountain peaks. If carbon emissions continue to increase , sea level rise is now expected to exceed previously projected figures , reaching 3.6 feet by 2100 , owing to accelerated melting of glaciers , reports the Washington Post. The shrinking Antarctic ice sheet might even be past the point of saving , meaning "" a chance of a multi-meter sea level rise within the next two to three centuries , "" a report author says , per CNN. Even without such a loss , many of the 680 million people living in low-lying coastal areas like New York , London , and Shanghai can expect to see 100-year flood events each year by 2050. story continues below "" The blue planet is in serious danger right now  and it ' s our fault , "" says coordinating lead author Dr. Jean-Pierre Gattuso , one of more than 100 scientists who worked on the report , per the BBC. Yet the worst impacts can be avoided with immediate cuts to carbon emissions. Warning of the increasing risks and costs of delayed action , authors say lowering emissions could reduce sea level rise from 15 millimeters per year by 2100 to 4 millimeters per year. All living things would feel the impact  regardless , the ocean will become more inhospitable and acidic  but this would lessen the effects on the most vulnerable. We just need a push , according to Gattuso. "" After the demonstrations of young people last week , I think they are the best chance for us , "" he says , per the BBC. "" They are dynamic , they are active  and they will make society change. "" ( Read more climate change stories. )"
455,"Earthquakes used to be unheard of in the Texas towns of Azle and Reno. But from November to January , the area experienced 34 perceptible tremors , and while they were all minor , topping out at magnitude 3.6 , residents are spooked  and blaming the local fracking industry , NBC News reports. Studies elsewhere have shown that injecting fracking wastewater into the ground can cause quakes. A study is currently being done to see if that ' s the case here , but residents at a recent public forum made clear that they don ' t want to wait the years it will take to complete it. "" They want to shut those wells down , "" the mayor of Reno said , to rousing applause. story continues below Azle and Reno aren ' t alone , either. The city council in Denton , Texas has ordered a temporary stop to all fracking , as it considers a proposal to ban it outright , the AP reports. Fracking has driven Denton ' s economy for more than a decade , but drillers there have defied city rules requiring them to line wastewater pits , and forbidding them from burning waste gas in residential areas. "" I think the people of Denton really want to keep the livability of the town , "" one resident said. "" And fracking is pretty obtrusive. "" ( Read more fracking stories. )"
456,"In an ongoing bout with climate change , Arctic reindeer aren ' t doing so hot. Some 200 of the animals have been found dead on Norway ' s Svalbard archipelago , each below the average weight of 150 to 200 pounds. The Norwegian Polar Institute , which made the discovery during the annual wild reindeer census , believes the animals died of starvation last winter as a result of altered conditions. Reindeer typically dig away at vegetation hidden beneath snow. But "" climate change is making it rain much more , "" census leader Ashild Onvik Pedersen tells the Guardian. "" The rain falls on the snow and forms a layer of ice on the tundra , making grazing conditions very poor. "" story continues below As the process repeats , ice may become impenetrable. It ' s an issue exacerbated by greater competition in the area. Svalbard ' s reindeer population has actually doubled to 22,000 since the 1980s , per USA Today. But experts again blame climate change for causing more reindeer to flood the area. The species vital to the tundra ecosystem must then travel far distances for food , with the young and old not always surviving the journey. Pedersen notes the winter death toll is the worst in 40 years of monitoring the reindeer , with the exception of the winter of 2007-08. "" This is a terrifying example of how climate change affects nature , "" he says , per Science Alert. "" It ' s just sad. "" ( Read more reindeer stories. )"
457,"A fire broke out in the intensive care unit of a government-run hospital in western India early Saturday , killing 10 infants , police and news reports said , per the AP. A preliminary investigation suggests the fire was caused by an electrical short circuit , a police rep says. The Press Trust of India news agency says the infants were 1 to 3 months old. Firefighters rescued seven babies from the newborn care unit of the hospital in Bhandara , a town in Maharashtra state located around 625 miles south of New Delhi. Nurses had been the ones to first sound the alarm on the blaze after noticing flames in the neonatal unit. "" Our staff extinguished the fire as soon as they could , "" a senior doctor at the hospital said , per the Guardian. "" The smoke led to the babies suffocating. "" Al Jazeera notes firefighters were able to stop the fire from reaching other parts of the hospital and that all other patients were safe. ( Read more India stories. )"
458,"A top North Korean official says that the US has nukes positioned off its coast aimed at "" our country , our capital , and our Dear Leader , "" notes the country won ' t back down from this threat , and warns it might even take the first step if it feels provoked. "" A preemptive nuclear strike is not something the US has a monopoly on , "" Lee Yong Pil , director of the country ' s Institute for American Studies , tells NBC News. "" If we see that the US would do it to us , we would do it first.  We have the technology. "" Lee also suggests that North Korea may carry out even more nuclear tests if the US and South Korea don ' t back off of their "" increasingly aggressive "" drills. In addition to those drills , the North isn ' t happy about the arrival of a US aircraft carrier to Busan , South Korea , just hours before its failed missile launch on Friday. story continues below It ' s not the first time North Korea has talked a tough game against the US , noting previously it was ready to take on the America ' s "" nuclear hegemony "" with its own "" nuclear hammers of justice , "" per RT.com. The North performed its last major act of what Seoul called "" fanatic recklessness "" on Sept. 9 , when it carried out a nuclear test that caused a 5.3-magnitude earthquake. NBC notes that pushing a warning out about another possible test will likely only infuriate the rest of the world and perhaps result in further sanctions against the rogue state. The Pentagon , meanwhile , seems confident that North Korea doesn ' t yet have the capability to reach the US mainland with a long-range missile , although a North Korean official authorized to speak about the country ' s missile program says the US is fibbing about that. ( Read more North Korea stories. )"
459,"After four decades of work , researchers published the origin of Big Bird ( not that one ) in Science this week  and it ' s scientifically unprecedented. The BBC reports that for the first time ever , researchers were able to watch the rise of a new species play out in nature. "" It ' s an extreme case of something we ' re coming to realize , "" a speciation expert says. "" Evolution in general can happen very quickly. "" According to a press release , in 1981 an interloper arrived on Daphne Major , a tiny island in the Galapagos archipelago where Peter and B. Rosemary Grant were studying Darwin ' s finches. The new bird , bigger than the three species living on the island , was a large cactus finch that had apparently flown from an island more than 60 miles away. Unable to return , it mated with a local medium ground finch. story continues below The resulting offspring , nicknamed the Big Bird lineage for their size , were unable to attract partners from the local finch population due to their weird song and unusual beak size and mated only among themselves. B. Rosemary Grant calls it a "" terrifically inbred lineage , "" Science Alert reports. Within just two generations , the Big Birds were a distinct species , as confirmed by genomic sequencing and their own unique physical characteristics. An expert says if a naturalist came to the island today , they would simply believe there were four native finch species with nothing giving away the Big Bird as a recent addition. It was touch-and-go there for a minute  droughts in 2002 and 2003 killed all but two Big Birds  but there are now 30 or so members of the hybrid species living on Daphne Major. ( The savior of the Galapagos tortoise is a dirty , dirty old man. )"
460,"A major California labor union that claimed to have discovered a stockpile of 39 million masks for health care workers fighting the coronavirus was duped in an elaborate scam uncovered by FBI investigators , the AP reports. Investigators stumbled onto the scheme while looking into whether they could intercept the masks for the Federal Emergency Management Agency under the Defense Production Act , the US attorney ' s office said Friday. The federal government has been quietly seizing supplies across the country as the outbreak spreads. But in this case , there was no warehouse , and there were no masks to seize , the LA Times reports. US Attorney Scott Brady told the Times that investigators tracked the tip back to a Pittsburgh businessman. story continues below That businessman , Brady said , had been working with the Service Employees International Union-United Healthcare Workers West to secure millions of masks. The businessman had been communicating with a broker in Australia and a supplier in Kuwait , who are both now the target of a federal investigation. The union and the Pittsburgh businessman appear to be among a string of middlemen who were fooled. The promise of 39 million masks was first made public March 26 , when the union announced it had found the stockpile after seeking potential suppliers by phone. No money was ever exchanged , but the masks never appeared , either. Experts say dubious brokers and suppliers have flooded the market with suspect medical-supply offers , creating an atmosphere of confusion and distrust. ( Read more face masks stories. )"
461,"The death toll from the massive explosion that shook Lebanon ' s capital Tuesday now stands at more than 70  and with scenes of utter devastation for blocks surrounding the Beirut port area , the toll appears certain to rise. The country ' s health minister says the blast , which caused a mushroom cloud and was heard as far away as Cyprus , 150 miles across the Mediterranean , injured at least 4,000 people , the BBC reports. Interior Minister Mohammed Fahmi told reporters that the blast was apparently caused by the detonation of more than 2,700 tons of ammonium nitrate that had been stored in a port warehouse since 2014 , when it was seized from a cargo ship , reports the AP. story continues below Lebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab vowed that those responsible for the catastrophe will "" pay the price. "" Other countries in the region  even longtime adversary Israel  have offered humanitarian aid , with Qatar promising to send field hospitals , the Guardian reports. It ' s not clear what caused the detonation , but witnesses said a fire in a nearby building spread to the warehouse just before the huge explosion. Germany  s geosciences center says the blast , which damaged buildings across the city , hit with the force of a 3.5-magnitude earthquake. President Trump offered his condolences , for what he described as an "" attack , "" CBS reports. He said he had spoken to "" some of our great generals , "" who told him they thought it was "" a bomb of some kind. "" ( Read more Beirut stories. )"
462,"Why did the Maya flee the majestic city-state of Tikal ? Experts say overpopulation , overexploitation of land , and droughts drove them out in the ninth century AD. Now , another cause : poisoned water. A new study says there ' s evidence of mercury and toxic algae ruining the drinking water just as residents were battling the dry season in what is now northern Guatemala , the Smithsonian reports. The research hinges on analysis of reservoirs , which  per sediment samples from the mid-800s  appear highly polluted. One source is cinnabar , a red mineral pigment used to paint Tikal ' s palaces and temples. Sadly , it ' s also mercury sulfide , which poisoned the water supply when it came off walls and flowed into reservoirs. story continues below The reservoirs also turned up DNA traces of blue-green algae , which can create deadly toxins. What ' s more , the study found high levels of phosphates  likely accrued from centuries of cooking fires , food waste , and feces  which would have added nutrients that spurred massive blue-green algae blooms , per Ars Technica. In a twist , this only poisoned rich people ' s reservoirs when mercury flowed off the fancy , cinnabar-coated plazas. But that might have accelerated Tikal ' s decline if Mayans questioned whether their rulers had failed to satisfy the gods. "" These events ... must have resulted in a demoralized populace who , in the face of dwindling water and food supplies , became more willing to abandon their homes , "" the study says. ( Read more Mayans stories. )"
463,"Ah , the buzzing smartphone : It ' s a call , a tweet , a funny photo  or an earthquake ? Yep , scientists say crowd-sourced data may one day relay warnings about impending quakes that have already begun elsewhere , LiveScience reports. In a computer-model study led by the US Geological Survey , researchers found that smartphones could send information about quakes of magnitude 7 or greater , giving several seconds of warning to areas the quake hadn ' t yet reached. The phones would automatically detect a temblor with an app using GPS technology and transmit information some distance away. Information from fewer than 5,000 phones would be enough to send a helpful alert , Eureka Alert reports  giving people time to halt trains , stop surgeries , take cover , you name it. "" A few seconds can be enormously helpful , "" says lead author Sarah Minson. story continues below This could bolster early warning systems that already exist ( in Japan and Mexico , say ) or curb the need for such pricey projects : "" We have high hopes that this could make a huge impact , "" says Minson. Scientists are currently planning a pilot project in Chile with 250 smartphones , and will also work with the West Coast ' s $ 145 million ShakeAlert plan , which mixes seismometers with GPS data. One little problem : Phone manufacturers don ' t allow access to raw GPS data , so smartphones will have to be reprogrammed down the road for the system to work. And , of course , the system will have to work in the real world for the first time , the LA Times reports. "" I ' m a little skeptical it will work , "" says a San Diego scientist. "" I think a system like that would false-alarm more than they claim in the paper. "" ( See why the odds of a strong California earthquake have just gone up. )"
464,"With California facing one of the worst drought years in its history , many more salmon will be traveling to the Pacific Ocean by truck this year. Waterways that young Chinook salmon would normally use to migrate have dried up and the California Department of Fish and Wildlife is trying to save the species by trucking around 17 million young salmon from hatcheries to be released into the San Francisco Bay , CBS News reports. With much of the salmon ' s habitat destroyed by damming , the trucking operations are not new , but around 20 % more salmon will be transported by tanker this year in a total of 146 temperature-controlled loads , reports the Guardian. story continues below "" Trucking young salmon to downstream release sites has proven to be one of the best ways to increase survival to the ocean during dry conditions , "" North Central Region Hatchery Supervisor Jason Julienne said in a statement , citing lessons learned from the last drought. Authorities say the operation will cost more than $ 800,000 , but it could help save thousands of jobs in the fishing industry. "" In the short term , this gives us hope. And we ' re happy that they ' re moving these fish , "" says John McManus , president of the Golden State Salmon Association , which represents fishermen and other groups. "" But it ' s also a very sad testament to what ' s happening with our rivers in the middle of this state. "" ( Read more California stories. )"
465,"The latest US Geological Survey forecast for California doesn ' t contain much that will reassure people worried about earthquakes  unless they find fatalism reassuring. The report says there is not only a 99 % chance of a 6.7 magnitude or greater quake like the 1994 Northridge one hitting the state in the next 30 years , the chances of a mega-quake of 8 magnitude or greater are significantly higher than earlier thought , the AP reports. "" California is earthquake country , and residents should live every day like it could be the day of a big one , "" says lead author Ned Field , a USGS geophysicist. He says that out of the state ' s hundreds of faults , the "" locked and loaded "" San Andreas Fault is still the biggest threat. story continues below Field says the odds of a mega-quake in the next three decades have risen to 7 % from 4.7 % since the 2008 forecast because scientists now have a better understanding of the fault system and how quakes can jump from fault to fault , the Los Angeles Times reports. In California , "" it has become increasingly apparent that we are not dealing with a few [ well-separated ] faults , but with a vast interconnected fault system , "" he says. The USGS still can ' t predict exactly when an earthquake will hit , but it ' s testing an early warning system that will give authorities vital seconds to do things like shut off gas lines and slow down trains , the AP reports. ( Another federal study warns that small , fracking-linked quakes in Oklahoma and Kansas are making a big one more likely. )"
466,"If the world is looking for another dumping ground for its nuclear waste , it may soon find a willing volunteer in South Australia. A report by the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Royal Commission offered tentative findings that storing spent fuel rods  429,900 tons now being temporarily stored in areas around the globe , per the Sydney Morning Herald , or what the ABC estimates to be 13 % of the world ' s waste  would be economically beneficial for Australia , and such a facility would be ready to accept waste as early as the late 2020s , the Guardian reports. The report , which Bloomberg notes will be issued in final form on May 6 , recommends a state-run fund be established to "" accumulate and equitably share the profits from the storage and disposal of waste. "" And those profits could be hefty : Estimates say the operation could generate about $ 3.6 billion ( US ) a year for the first 30 years , then $ 1.4 billion until the end of the project  an estimated $ 183 billion in all , per the Herald. story continues below The project would also result in plenty of jobs : 1,500 to start , with a peak of 4,500 during the 25-year construction period. Although specific sites for the waste weren ' t noted in the report , it says South Australia would be ideal because it ' s not terribly prone to earthquakes , boasts a dry climate , and would have the political expediency necessary to carry out the project. There is the worry of radiation emitting into the atmosphere , leading an aboriginal group to call the plan "" immoral , "" per the Advertiser. But the report cites facilities in Finland and Sweden that have set up safe , long-term storage for nuclear waste and says risks could be minimized. ( A New Mexico radiation leak was blamed on kitty litter. )"
467,"The largest foreign intelligence service headquarters on the planet just opened its doors in Berlin , reports the Guardian  just not to the public. The new home of Germany ' s Federal Intelligence Service took 12 years to build and cost $ 1.23 billion. Covering a site where an East German sports stadium once stood , the building has a footprint the size of 36 soccer pitches. About 4,000 intelligence agents are expected to work in the secretive new building , where they will not be allowed mobile phones , private laptops , or access to personal emails or social media. The building , which swallowed up 4.8 million cubic feet of concrete and 20,000 tons of steel in its production , was supposed to open in 2011. It was postponed because of construction issues , and a bit of theft : In 2015 , a group of thieves stole taps from toilets all over the massive complex , causing widespread flooding. story continues below Memories of the Gestapo and Stasi are still very much alive in Berlin , explains the New York Times , and the Federal Intelligence Service has faced criticism in recent years. Germans value their privacy and are notoriously mistrustful of such agencies. A 2016 poll showed only a quarter of respondents having any trust in the service. Chancellor Angela Merkel spoke at a press conference in Berlin announcing the opening of the new headquarters. In an often very confusing world ,  she said , now , more urgently than ever , Germany needs a strong and efficient foreign intelligence service.  ( Read more Germany stories. )"
468,"Hundreds of people are missing , more than 6,000 have been left homeless , and an unknown number are thought dead after a portion of a still-under-construction hydroelectric dam in Laos ' Attapeu province reportedly collapsed Monday night , per the AP. The country ' s KPL news agency , via the BBC , reports that the collapse of an auxiliary dam attached to the main Xepian-Xe Nam Noy hydropower dam led to flash floods in the southeastern Laos province , sending locals to the roofs of their houses and boats out to rescue survivors. The New York Times notes that 175 billion cubic feet of water gushed out and flooded the area ; Sky News notes that ' s about the amount that would fill 2 million Olympic-size swimming pools. story continues below The dam , which was on schedule to open in 2019 , is a joint project run by two South Korean companies , including SK Engineering and Construction , as well as Thai and Lao lenders. An SK E&C official quoted by the Yonhap news agency says a deluge of rain that ' s about three times more than usual had flooded the auxiliary dam. Yonhap says officials are still trying to figure out if the dam overflowed or simply gave way. The dam in Laos , one of Asia ' s most poverty-stricken nations , was set to bring in billions of dollars for the country by helping to generate electricity that would mostly be exported to Thailand. ( Read more Laos stories. )"
469,"Proud Boys founder Gavin McInnes has been kicked off another website  but it ' s not because of his far-right beliefs , according to YouTube. A notice on the Canadian ' s account , which had around 221,000 subscribers , states that it has been terminated because of multiple claims of copyright infringement , CNET reports. The company says it is legally required to remove content when copyright holders notify it of infringement , and it moves quickly to terminate the accounts of repeat offenders. McInnes says he plans to file "" counternotifications "" arguing that the videos in question were either misidentified as copyrighted or allowable under fair use policies. story continues below McInnes stepped down from the Proud Boys last month after it was linked to assaults and reports that the FBI considered it an extremist group. Before the YouTube ban , McInnes was kicked off Facebook , Instagram , PayPal , and Twitter , mostly due to violations of their terms of service , Gizmodo reports. McInnes was also fired by Blaze Media after its merger with CRTV. He told the Huffington Post on Monday that he was the victim of a "" concerted effort "" to "" de-platform "" him. "" I ' m finally out of platforms and unable to defend myself , "" he said. "" We are no longer living in a free country. "" ( Proud Boys members were arrested after an October brawl in New York City. )"
470,"More than 564,000 Americans have died of COVID , and the Federal Emergency Management Agency has been trying to help with funeral expenses. On Monday , FEMA opened up a hotline that allowed those who ' ve lost loved ones to the coronavirus to apply for reimbursement of up to $ 9,000 per funeral , or $ 35,500 in total for any individual applicant who ' s had multiple family members die of COVID. CBS News reports that more than 1 million calls flooded the hotline on its launch day. "" There was definitely congestion on the line , "" acting FEMA Director Bob Fenton told a Homeland Security subcommittee , adding that the tech issues and clogged phone lines eased up a bit by Tuesday. To qualify , the funeral expenses must have occurred after Jan. 20 , 2020 , with a death certificate indicating the death "" may have been caused by "" or "" was likely the result of "" COVID. story continues below Forbes adds that although the person applying for the reimbursement funds must be "" a US citizen , noncitizen national , or qualified alien , "" the deceased isn ' t required to be , as long as the death took place within the US or its territories. Documentation other than a death certificate may also be required , including receipts and funeral home contracts. WGAL warns interested parties to beware of scammers who offer to help register people with the FEMA program in an attempt to swipe their personal and financial info. Instead , those who want to apply should call 844-684-6333 directly. FEMA is asking applicants to be patient during the process. "" Please know there is no deadline to apply , "" the agency says in a statement. "" We will not rush through calls because we intend to make sure that every applicant gets their questions answered and receives the help they need. "" ( Read more FEMA stories. )"
471,"Driving around Southern California ? You may notice a bubbling mud spring close to Highway 111 that LiveScience likens to a "" geologic poltergeist. "" Called the "" Slow One ""  it ' s near tectonic plates expected to one day cause the "" Big One , "" a giant earthquake  this mud spring has been around since 1953 and caught scientists ' attention when it began shifting in recent decades. Then this year it moved 60 feet in a few months and 60 feet in a single day. Now it ' s menacing pricey fiber-optic cables , a petroleum pipeline , a Union Pacific freight rail track , and part of Highway 111. "" It ' s a slow-moving disaster , "" a California fire and emergency official tells the LA Times. Imperial County even declared an emergency this year to curb the Slow One , to no avail. story continues below Union Pacific constructed a 100-foot-long , 75-foot-deep underground wall of steel and boulders , but the Slow One just bubbled under it , approaching the tracks. Now Union Pacific has built temporary tracks on safer land and officials say part of Highway 111 , which links the Cali-Mexico border to Interstate 110 , could get shut down. What ' s more , the Slow One smells like eggs and would suffocate any unlucky person who tumbles into the 40-foot-deep sinkhole. Also called the Niland Geyser , it runs about 80 degrees Fahrenheit thanks to bubbling carbon dioxide. "" It ' s a quirky thing , "" says geophysicist David Lynch , who has studied the mud spring. "" If there was no railroad nearby , you wouldn ' t even know about it. This would just be something out there chewing out the desert. "" ( One geyser erupted and poured out trash dating to the 1930s. )"
472,"Nerves were jangled and items were jolted off shelves by four earthquakes in North Texas yesterday , but no major damage was reported. All four quakes were centered in the same location in Irving , Dallas County , where there have been 20 quakes reported since October 2014 , NBC reports. The four quakes  ranging in strength from magnitude 2.7 to 3.6  were centered near the old Texas Stadium site , former home of the Dallas Cowboys , and Southern Methodist University scientists are trying to determine the cause. story continues below The United States Geological Survey says the quakes  two of which happened within seconds of each other starting at 8 : 11pm  were strong enough to break windows and be felt by many people in the area. Researchers say the quakes could be linked to stored stress in old fault lines , although the disposal of wastewater from the energy industry can also trigger small quakes. But "" there are no oil and gas disposal wells in Dallas County , "" a seismologist with the Texas Railroad Commission tells the Dallas Morning News. "" And I see no linkage between oil and gas activity and these recent earthquakes in Irving. "" ( Read more Texas stories. )"
473,"President Trump ' s legal team is getting another makeover. The White House on Wednesday confirmed White House lawyer Ty Cobb would retire at the end of this month , a prospect he has apparently been discussing for weeks. He ' s been Trump ' s point person in Robert Mueller ' s ongoing Russia probe , and the New York Times ' sources say he ' ll be replaced by one of the lawyers who represented Bill Clinton during his impeachment , Emmet Flood. It reports Flood had last year considered coming on board , but that the requirement that he work alongside Trump ' s New York lawyer Marc Kasowitz became a dealbreaker. The Times notes the hiring isn ' t finalized , but offers this take : that Flood will "" take a more adversarial approach to the investigation than Mr. Cobb , who had pushed Mr. Trump to strike a cooperative tone. "" story continues below At Above the Law , Elie Mystal hypothesizes that if Mueller subpoenas Trump , with Cobb gone , Trump will fight it to the Supreme Court. But he acknowledges Flood is a wild card. We "" know that Clinton was subpoenaed , and Clinton eventually submitted to an interview which caused Ken Starr to pull back the subpoena. So we don ' t actually know how Emmet Flood is going to want to play this. "" CNBC has more on Flood ' s background : He was the lead lawyer in the White House Counsel ' s office during George W. Bush ' s administration , and dealt with hundreds of Congressional investigations. He also represented Dick Cheney in the civil lawsuit filed against him by the CIA ' s Valerie Plame. ( Read more Ty Cobb stories. )"
474,"People incensed by a Texas Right to Life website for anonymously reporting women who had sought abortions asked to speak to the manager , and it worked. While TikTok users and Redditors flooded the site with fake tips , other people went straight to the top. The site  s host , GoDaddy , has taken it down. GoDaddy released a statement Friday saying , Last night we informed prolifewhistleblower.com they have violated GoDaddy  s terms of service and have 24 hours to move to a different provider ,  CNBC reports. The specific part of the TOS is the host  s rule against sharing personally identifiable information without the person  s consent , NPR reports. The site debuted when Texas  restrictive new abortion law took effect. In addition to individual users adding fake tips to the website , some programmers developed and shared tools and apps to spam the site with fake tips , per NPR. story continues below The law bans abortions after six weeks , which is early enough that most people wouldn  t know they  re pregnant. The ruling includes a provision allowing disinterested third parties to sue someone who has had an abortion for up to $ 10,000. A judge in Texas has temporarily shielded clinics from lawsuits. Texas Right to Life seems unfazed by GoDaddy  s announcement , promising to restore the site using another host over the weekend. It  s not the first time a host dropped a right-wing website. The Parler social media platform was down for a month after Amazon dropped it for violating its terms of service. ( Read more texas abortion law stories. )"
475,"Sunday marked a deadly day on Mount Everest and an especially tragic one for an American who had weathered danger there before. Alabama doctor Roland Yearwood was one of three to die in separate incidents on the mountain , the Washington Post reports. Yearwood , whose cause of death has not been released , previously survived the 2015 avalanche that took 19 lives on Everest following an earthquake. Reuters quotes a trekking company sponsor who says the 50-year-old died at around 27,500 feet ; the sponsor was unaware whether Yearwood had already summitted or was still ascending. AL.com reports the married father of two worked at Georgiana Medical Center , and flags a hospital website bio that noted Yearwood was trying to scale the tallest mountain on each of the seven continents. story continues below A Slovak and an Australian climber also died , and an Indian climber is missing after conquering the mountain on Saturday. Ravi Kumar reportedly became so exhausted on his descent that he needed to lie down. Also ill , the climber ' s guide descended for aid and successfully got to Camp 4 , but Kumar has not been located. The Post says about 60 people managed to get to the top on Sunday but quotes guide Tendi Sherpa as saying the day saw a flurry of helicopter evacuations ; bad weather and high winds have left climbers with "" some little keyholes "" during which to get to the top , he says. It ' s not the only grim news from Everest : A climber has confirmed the 2015 avalanche also claimed the Hillary Step , a famously challenging , nearly vertical part of the trek near the summit. ( Read more Mount Everest stories. )"
476,"An Anheuser-Busch brewery in Georgia began filling its cans with something other than beer late Wednesday night to help those affected by flooding in Texas and Oklahoma. "" Right now our production line is running emergency drinking water , "" the Cartersville brewery manager told NBC News. The brewery  one of 12 Anheuser-Busch operates in the US  has directed about 2,000 cases of 24 cans to the battered states. It ' s not exactly a novel move for the brewery , which partners with the American Red Cross to produce emergency water a few times each year. "" There are a lot of folks in need , "" a Red Cross rep says. And their ranks could swell : CNN reports battered Houston could be in for five more days of storms , and up to 6 inches is expected in some areas of Oklahoma through Sunday. story continues below Flood and flash flood warnings were issued yesterday for more than 20 communities , including the Dallas area , where up to 6 inches overnight caused major flash floods ; more than 100 flights in and out of Dallas-Fort Worth were canceled yesterday and today. Some 50 miles south in Johnson County , a dozen people had to be rescued overnight , in some cases from "" homes inundated with water , "" NBC News reports. Reuters reports this month has been the wettest May on record in Texas , with the average rainfall hitting 7.54 inches to beat June 2004 ' s 6.66 inches. The bit of good to come from the bad : As of Tuesday , only 5 % of Texas was experiencing drought conditions , per the US Drought Monitor ; one year ago , that figure was 71 % . ( Read more Anheuser-Busch stories. )"
477,"Pooping in the wilderness is something Smokey Bear probably wouldn ' t have that big a problem with  but burning your toilet paper afterward is a different story. The Bureau of Land Management says a mountain biker in Idaho started a 73-acre blaze in the Boise foothills on Wednesday afternoon after setting his toilet paper alight following a "" rest stop "" in a ravine , NBC News reports. Fire officials say the man thought he was doing the right thing , but an ember set some dry grass on fire and the blaze , dubbed the Hull Fire , quickly spread out of control. It was contained roughly six-and-a-half hours later. story continues below "" I guess when you gotta go , you gotta go , "" BLM spokeswoman Carrie Bilbao tells KTVB , though she stresses that burning toilet paper in dry conditions is a very bad idea ; the agency advises people to bury human waste or remove it under the "" pack it in , pack it out "" policy. The man , who came forward yesterday and was handed a citation for starting the fire ( that ' s usually accompanied by a $ 250 fine ) , may also have to pay the full cost of putting it out , which the Idaho Statesman reports could be in the thousands to cover the helicopters , air tankers , and ground crews that stopped the blaze from spreading to neighborhoods. Bilbao tells the Statesman a toilet paper-related fire has occurred on BLM land at least once before. ( Here are five ways to , well , poop better. )"
478,"It ' s one of the strangest post-earthquake images you ' ll see : three cows stranded on a small patch of grass after the earth all around them has fallen away. The scene is out of New Zealand , where a 7.8 magnitude quake has left at least two people dead and an estimated 1,000 tourists stranded as well. The cows , two adults and one calf , were spotted by a helicopter after landslides near Kaikoura , reports the New Zealand Herald. It was unclear when they might be rescued. ( If only cows could text. )"
479,""" Keep up your work up there , keep looking for the missing and saving lives. "" It ' s an unusual message for a deceased dog , but an appropriate one for Kaos , a German shepherd credited with helping find survivors buried in Italy following a 6.2-magnitude earthquake that killed nearly 300 people in August 2016 and another 6.6-magniture temblor in October of that year , reports the Guardian. Labeled a hero , the dog met its own untimely end over the weekend in what owner Fabiano Ettore claims was a poisoning , per the BBC. There are "" no words "" to describe the grief following "" such a horrible act , "" Ettore wrote in a Facebook post , shared more than 69,000 times , after finding Kaos dead in his garden in Sant ' Eusanio Forconese on Saturday. story continues below Italian police , who say the dog fell ill while outside and died a short time later , are now investigating. Per Sky News , a 2014 report named poisonings as the second leading cause of canine deaths in Italy , and politicians are now using Kaos ' death as a kind of rallying cry. Referring to the "" terrible and unjustified act , "" Health Minister Giulia Grillo is calling for tougher sentences against "" these hateful crimes committed by heartless criminals. "" Member of parliament Michela Brambilla , who previously proposed a law that would ban the use of poisoned bait , likewise calls for harsher penalties for those "" who mistreat and kill those who do not even have a voice. "" Meanwhile , #Kaos was trending among Italian tweeters. ( This gang put a big bounty on a dog ' s head. )"
480,"A Long Island fire chief fought tears as he faced two fire engines , a ladder truck , and an ambulance  all destroyed in a Christmas fire. "" This is what we do on a daily basis to help everybody , and it happened to us , "" North Massapequa Fire Department Chief Joseph Pascale told the New York Post on Wednesday. "" It ' s tremendous. And on Christmas. "" Spotted by a state trooper at 6am , the firehouse blaze ripped through the unoccupied building , drawing firefighters from 20 to 25 departments. Three explosions kept them from rescuing the trucks , but it didn ' t last long and no one got hurt , per the Nassau Daily Voice. story continues below "" It was a quick knockdown , "" Pascale told Newsday. "" Our fire wall held , which kept it from the main part of the building. "" The cause remains unknown , but the damage is clear , and fire officials are already offering Pascale ' s team "" equipment , firehouses , whatever we need "" to "" come back better. "" But he struggled when talking about everyone who helped : "" I can ' t thank them enough as well as my own members , for doing such a great job on Christmas morning , "" he said of the 120 firefighters who pitched in. "" They came from their families and they ' re here. "" ( Read more firefighters stories. )"
481,"A fast-moving wildfire in the mountains along California ' s central coast trapped 14 firefighters , who deployed emergency shelters as the blaze overran a fire station , authorities say. Several firefighters were treated for burns and one was hospitalized in critical condition Tuesday , the San Francisco Chronicle reports. The US Forest Service says the Nacimiento Station in the Los Padres National Forest was destroyed. Elsewhere in the state , helicopters rescued more than 100 campers , hikers , and others trapped in Sierra National Forest by the Creek fire , reports the Los Angeles Times. Another 200 were rescued over the weekend. story continues below With at least two dozen major fires burning , California has already set a record , with more than 2.3 million acres burned , and the time of year when wildfires are usually worst is just beginning , the AP reports. The US Forest Service has closed campsites statewide. "" Existing fires are displaying extreme fire behavior. New fire starts are likely. Weather conditions are worsening , and we simply do not have enough resources to fully fight and contain every fire , "" says Randy Moore , a forester for the Forest Service  s Pacific Southwest region. The New York Times reports that major fires are also burning in Oregon and Washington state , where a blaze has destroyed 80 % of the buildings in Malden , population 200. ( One California fire was caused by a gender reveal party. )"
482,"Joshua Gallardo had just been presented with a deputy of the month award when a Florida city commissioner asked him to come back up to the front of the room. It wasn ' t for another congratulations. "" You probably don  t remember me , but you  re the police officer who falsely arrested me four years ago , "" Gelin said to Gallardo , USA Today reports. "" You lied on the police report. I believe you  re a rogue police officer , you  re a bad police officer and you don  t deserve to be here. "" Gallardo nodded as Gelin spoke , then gave a thumbs-up to the Tamarac commissioners and the audience as he walked away , per CNN. The arrest was made in 2015 , before Gelin was elected , when he tried to stop a fight between two homeless men. When the Broward County deputy arrived , Gelin said , he ordered him to back away and quit recording the fight ; Gallardo said Gelin ignored repeated commands to step back. The charges against Gelin were later dropped. story continues below Taramac ' s mayor thinks Gelin was out of line during the ceremony. Michelle Gomez took the microphone and reassured the law enforcement officers. "" We appreciate you , "" she said. She later issued a statement saying , "" This was neither the time nor the forum to air personal grievances. "" A sheriff ' s official also was critical , saying that "" in a fit of anger "" at the ceremony , Gelin "" selfishly chose to take the spotlight away "" from the deputies being honored. The police union supported Gelin in his campaign last year , but now says it won ' t endorse him for re-election. Gelin issued a statement calling the arrest a "" traumatizing experience "" that he still thinks about. "" I had a flashback and a flood of emotions came to me at the meeting and so , I spoke up , "" the commissioner said. ( Read more Broward County stories. )"
483,"Devastating wildfires have set a record that the Kansas Division of Emergency Management says "" it never hoped to see and never hopes to surpass. "" More than 500,000 acres in two counties in the southwest of the state have burned this week in what is believed to be the biggest fire in the state ' s recorded history , the Kansas City Star reports. Some ranchers have lost their homes along with almost all their cattle , with the number of livestock deaths believed to be in the thousands , CNN reports. Veterinarians say calving season had just gotten underway , making this the worst possible time for fire to sweep through grasslands. story continues below "" It ' s horrible out there , the things I saw today , "" hunter Larry Konrade told the Wichita Eagle after a day spent helping a rancher put down livestock badly burned by the fire. "" The fire was so big , and so much of Clark County burned , I don ' t see how anything lived through it. "" The fires also swept through parts of Oklahoma and Texas. They caused at least six deaths , including three people killed while trying to evacuate cattle , and forced thousands from their homes , NBC reports. Authorities blame "" extreme fire conditions "" including temperatures reaching into the 80s , strong winds , and low humidity. ( Read more Kansas stories. )"
484,"An estimated 200,000 Salvadorans and their 190,000 US-born children aren ' t the only people stressed out about the administration ' s decision to withdraw Temporary Protected Status : The government of El Salvador , which estimates 95 % of TPS holders are employed or own businesses in the US , says it will "" face a great challenge "" if tens of thousands are deported after Sept.19 , 2019 , when the protection from deportation introduced after two deadly earthquakes in 2001 expires. But Salvadoran officials don ' t think it will come to that. Foreign Minister Hugo Martinez tells the Washington Post that the government will lobby Congress to find a way for people losing TPS status to remain legal US residents. "" We think we have sufficient time and will work hard for this alternative , "" he says. story continues below Congressional Democrats support finding a way for the Salvadorans to stay , though they have multiple other immigration issues to deal with , Reuters reports. Advocates warn that El Salvador has one of the world ' s highest murder rates , making it a dangerous place to deport people to  and that its economy will be devastated if it loses billions of dollars in remittances from the US. "" This is really bad news for our country , "" Nayib Bukele , the mayor of San Salvador , tells the Los Angeles Times. "" Our country doesn ' t create opportunities for the Salvadorans who live here. Imagine what we ' re going to do with 200,000 more coming in. "" Experts say that if there are mass deportations , many former TPS holders are likely to try to move to the US illegally  as will some Salvadorans displaced by the skilled and bilingual new arrivals. ( Read more El Salvador stories. )"
485,"Tens of millions of California residents must drastically cut back on their water use , according to new emergency drought regulations. The most drastic measures so far will force a statewide reduction in usage by 25 % from 2013 amounts , with some inland regions forced to cut consumption by up to 36 % over the next nine months , the Sacramento Bee reports. The State Water Resources Control Board unanimously approved the regulations , based on residential per capita use last summer , after about eight hours of testimony and discussion yesterday. Chair Felicia Marcus said the move was about "" preparing for a drought that can go beyond what we have seen in this century , "" though some argued the regulations were unattainable , unfair , and unwelcome. story continues below A Sacramento Regional Water Authority rep said the plan shows "" significant inequity "" when it comes to Sacramento , which faces some of the toughest measures. Others noted the regulations could slash state jobs , crush industrial businesses , kill vegetation , and spawn wildfires , the Los Angeles Times reports. But the board argued voluntary cuts haven ' t been helping , and residents and businesses used just 3.6 % less water in March than in the same month in 2013. "" We are in extraordinary times , "" the board ' s vice chair said. "" We are beyond the worst-case scenario. "" More bad news : Californians are expected to pay higher water rates as water agencies are set to lose $ 500 million amid conservation efforts ; the goal is to save 400 billion gallons of water. Districts that don ' t meet targets will receive warnings , followed by fines for repeated violations. ( Read more California drought stories. )"
486,"Smoke from the West Coast wildfires has tainted grapes in some of the nation ' s most celebrated wine regions with an ashy flavor that could spell disaster for the 2020 vintage , per the AP. Wineries in California , Oregon , and Washington have survived severe wildfires before , but the smoke from this year ' s blazes has been especially bad  thick enough to obscure vineyards drooping with clusters of grapes almost ready for harvest and resulting in some of the worst air quality in the world. No one knows the extent of the smoke damage to the crop , and growers are trying to assess the severity. If tainted grapes are made into wine without steps to minimize the harm or weed out the damaged fruit , the result could be wine so bad that it cannot be marketed. story continues below The wildfires are likely to be "" without question the single worst disaster the wine-grape growing community has ever faced , "" said John Aguirre , president of the California Association of Winegrape Growers. With this year ' s harvest underway , some wineries are not accepting grapes they had agreed to purchase unless they have been tested for smoke taint , Aguirre said. But laboratories are too backed up to analyze new orders in time. In every grape he has come across , Noah Dorrance , owner of Reeve Wines in Healdsburg , Calif. , told the San Francisco Chronicle , "" you could already taste and smell this ashy , barbecued flavor , kind of like a campfire. "" This has also been an issue in Australia. ( Read more wine stories. )"
487,"Scientists aren  t entirely sure what caused the earthquakes that rocked Oklahoma last week , but many in the state are wondering whether it might have something to do with the oil wells and fracking operations that dot the state , the LA Times reports. Oil companies scoff at the notion  To try to blame it on an industry that  s been around for hundreds of years is pretty far-fetched ,  the head of one group said  and scientists say it  s unlikely , but they  re looking into it. story continues below One geophysicist examined the connection between drilling and one county  s uptick in seismic activity earlier this year , and found some correlation , but said it was impossible to prove causation. Fracking and wastewater injection wells have been known to cause earthquakes in Arkansas , California , Texas , and overseas , one geophysicist says , though not of any significant magnitude.  But the theory has captured the public imagination. They draw so much out of the earth ,  one resident says. Something  s got to give.  ( Read more Oklahoma stories. )"
488,"For anyone holding hope that the dry conditions in the Middle East are but a temporary drought , two cave stalagmites taken from Iran tell a long history of the region ' s precipitation and give a grim prognosis : not much rain for the next 10,000 years. Thanks to their chemical composition , the two rocks store data dating back 130,000 years , detailing how much water has fallen in that time , reports the International Business Times. Publishing their results in the journal Quaternary Science Reviews , researchers say the oxygen levels of the stalagmites  rocks that grow up from a cave floor  indicate precipitation levels that are linked to the patterns of the sun ' s energy on the Earth ' s surface. In short , they rise and fall together. story continues below It won ' t be for another 10,000 years , though , that "" solar insolation "" will rise above today ' s values , forecasting more rain. "" Local governments generally prefer the narrative that the region is only in a temporary dry spell , "" says the study ' s lead author at the University of Miami ' s Rosenstiel School. "" To the contrary ... the future long-term trend based on paleoclimate reconstructions is likely towards diminishing precipitation. "" UPI notes that other climate models have suggested that the Mideast will become too hot and dry to sustain large populations within a century. ( This simple ingredient could help crops survive droughts. )"
489,"Everything , including murder charges that could bring a sentence of life in prison , is "" on the table "" for two teenagers accused of starting a devastating wildfire in Tennessee , prosecutors warn. The pair , whose names and ages have not been publicly released , were charged with aggravated arson earlier this month and are in juvenile detention. Authorities say a firestorm that began with a blaze the teens allegedly started in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park on Nov. 23 ended up killing 14 people , injuring another 175 , destroying more than 2,000 homes and other structures , and scorching around 20,000 acres of the park. It ' s not clear whether prosecutors plan to try the teens as adults. story continues below CNN legal analyst Danny Cevallos says the teens could be tried for first-degree murder even if they weren ' t planning to kill anybody , because Tennessee law allows the charges "" killing of another committed in the perpetration of or attempt to perpetrate "" offenses including arson. Sources tell the Knoxville News Sentinel that the boys are 17 and 15 years old , making it possible that both could be tried as adults. The sources say the boys were tossing lit matches onto the ground around the Chimney Tops Trail , and they were tracked down with the help of a photo another hiker took of the boys walking away from the trail with smoke in the background. ( Read more wildfires stories. )"
490,"Dairy farmers dumping milk is just one sign of an out-of-sync food chain. Another is the low price of asparagus in the US , writes Chase Purdy at Quartz. The veggie generally sold for $ 3 a pound in early January , but the price dropped to $ 2 early this month. A buck a pound may not mean a huge difference on the micro level , but the drop nonetheless has "" big implications "" in the grand scheme of world food prices , writes Purdy. In this case , asparagus in the US is cheap because Mexico  a major world supplier of the vegetable  can no longer ship as much to Asia because of coronavirus restrictions. Instead , that excess asparagus is flooding the US market and driving down prices. story continues below "" To be sure , the overall impact of Covid-19 on the global food system has so far been minimal , "" writes Purdy , but he warns that could change fast. As CNN reports , conglomerates such as Nestle and Unilever are warning about a potential food crisis because the supply chain is international in scope. And at the UN , an agricultural agency is urging nations to work together to make sure that "" global food security "" remains stable amid the pandemic. "" An unexpected and fast decline in commodity prices has hit producers while a strong depreciation of most currencies against the US dollar risks wiping out any price benefits for consumers : a combination that could potentially threaten global food security for some time to come , "" it states. ( Read more food prices stories. )"
491,"A Florida firefighter who rushed to the scene of a local fire made an awful discovery this week. Per a GoFundMe page set up by fellow firefighter Christopher Morales , Corey Logan , a 20-year veteran of Miami-Dade Fire Rescue , was working overtime Tuesday when he got a Ring alert on his phone that showed a neighbor banging on his front door. Because his wife suffered from various medical conditions , Logan and Morales immediately jumped into one of the department ' s firetrucks and raced to the scene. As they were driving , Morales writes , they heard Logan ' s address announced on the dispatch radio. When they got to the residence in Homestead , they saw smoke and flames pouring out of the house. "" [ Logan ] was one of the first in , "" an emergency worker for the county tells the Miami Herald. story continues below "" We did our job and put the fire out and searched as fast as we could but were too late , "" Morales writes. Logan ' s wife was found dead in a bedroom. "" Not only did he show up first to his house burning , but also lost the love of his life , "" Morales adds. "" His whole world has been flipped upside down. "" The fire department issued a statement Wednesday confirming Logan ' s wife had died. As of Friday morning , the GoFundMe had raised more than $ 150,000 to help Logan , who ' d been his wife ' s caretaker for many years , "" get his life and family ' s life back together. "" The Metro notes it ' s not yet clear how the fire started. ( Read more firefighters stories. )"
492,"Ashley Barno was waiting to board an American Airlines flight from San Diego to Chicago when the texts flooded in. An unknown sender said hello , complimented Barno ' s appearance , and noted he ' d been watching her at San Diego International. "" You are looking very gorgeous in grey top today ! ! "" read one message , per the Washington Post. Another sent after Barno boarded the plane told her the sender , "" Ahmad , "" was also on board. "" You want to sit next to me ? "" he said. "" Just looking for one chance to prove my self ! ! I will be very respectful to you always. "" The texts continued long after Barno replied , "" Leave me alone. "" Now , eight months later , she says she has trouble eating , sleeping , socializing , and traveling as a result of sexual harassment and stalking by an American Airlines employee who took her number from a luggage tag. story continues below "" Just knowing that he knew what I looked like , and that we were in an enclosed plane and that there ' s no way out , like really , really scared me , "" Barno tells KNSD. Though she alerted a flight attendant and saw the man escorted off the plane by security in Chicago , she says American Airlines failed to respond to her repeated requests for information after an initial phone call. Having learned that the employee had similarly harassed another passenger , she says she wanted assurances that he ' d been properly disciplined. "" I tried for several months to work this out amicably , but ... no one responded to me , "" says Barno , who is suing the airline for negligent hiring and other wrongdoing. A spokesman responds that the airline "" investigated the allegations and took appropriate action. "" He adds the individual is no longer employed at American Airlines. ( Read more American Airlines stories. )"
493,"It wasn ' t just Ted Cruz who escaped his state during Texas ' devastating freeze last week. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton , along with his wife state Sen. Angela Paxton , left on the same day as Cruz , just not for Cancun. Rather , they traveled to Utah on Wednesday , where the Republican AG had work meetings , Business Insider reports. "" Attorney General Paxton attended a previously planned meeting with the attorney general of Utah to discuss several matters , "" including the Google antitrust lawsuit and a police training program , his rep tells CNN. But , he added , the AG "" did not leave Texas until after power had returned to most of the state , including his own home. "" More than 2 million Texans were still without power Wednesday night , the Hill reports. story continues below As for state Sen. Paxton , she joined her husband "" on a previously planned trip to Utah which included meetings that benefit her efforts to promote human dignity and support law enforcement , "" her rep says. Democratic officials in Texas were nonetheless livid. "" Texas Republicans do not give a damn about the people they were elected to represent , and they continue to focus on issues that don ' t affect the lives of everyday Texans to gaslight them into thinking they are doing their jobs , "" Texas Democratic Party Chair Gilberto Hinojosa said in a statement. Texas State Rep. Gary Gates , also a Republican , flew to Florida in a private jet Wednesday ; he said he did so after his home lost power , his pipes burst , and 30 % of the house flooded. ( Read more Texas stories. )"
494,"The massive wildfire raging in and around Yosemite National Park is still growing , and forecasters warn that today will pose a huge challenge for firefighters. Progress has been made at the western edge of the fire , but it is still pushing to the north and east and strong winds spreading the fire from treetop to treetop are likely to hamper containment efforts today , a National Weather Service meteorologist tells the Los Angeles Times. "" If they can make it until Tuesday , it looks like conditions will be better , "" he says. story continues below The Rim Fire , one of the largest in California ' s history , is still just 7 % contained despite the efforts of 2,800 firefighters from across the state. "" This fire has continued to pose every challenge that there can be on a fire : inaccessible terrain , strong winds , dry conditions. It ' s a very difficult firefight , "" a forestry official tells the AP. Communities in the fire ' s path have been evacuated. In San Francisco , where a state of emergency has been declared , drinking water quality has not been affected despite the fire ' s proximity to the main reservoir supplying the city , though two hydropower plants have been shut down and the city has had to spend $ 600,000 buying power elsewhere to make up the shortfall , the San Francisco Chronicle reports. The blaze has created its own weather pattern , and is threatening two groves of the planet ' s oldest trees. ( Read more Yosemite National Park stories. )"
495,"A small earthquake in North Korea on Wednesday was caused by a nuclear test that country conducted more than a year ago , CNN reports. The September 2017 test  the country  s sixth and most powerful  caused an initial magnitude 6.3 quake , per phys.org , followed by a magnitude 4 earthquake believed to be caused by the area above the underground test site at Mt. Mantap collapsing. During the intervening months , seismometers in China , South Korea , and the US have detected several aftershocks ranging between magnitude 2.1 and 3.4 within the region of the Punggye-ri nuclear test site. Wednesday  s quake was magnitude 2.8 , according to South Korea  s Meteorological Administration , CNN reports. The Punggye-ri site has since been closed , according to reports ( Read more North Korea stories. )"
496,"Bomb threats sent to locations from coast to coast on Thursday  including schools , universities , police departments , and news organizations  appear to be a hoax , authorities say. The threats follow a common pattern , WLS-TV reports : They involve an email warning of a hidden explosive and a demand for the deposit of a large sum of money into a bitcoin account to avoid detonation. Threats were sent to dozens of locations across the US , per the AP , which reports that the subject line of some of the emails read Think Twice.  No explosive devices have been found , USA Today reports. story continues below New York City police , who were investigating multiple threats , say the threats were intended to cause disruption and extort money. The NYPD Counterterrorism Bureau tweeted , These threats are also being reported to other locations nationwide &amp; are NOT considered credible.  Locations in California , Idaho , Texas , Illinois , Ohio , Massachusetts , and Florida , among others , received threats. In a statement , the FBI says it is aware of the threats and working with local law enforcement , adding , "" As always , we encourage the public to remain vigilant and to promptly report suspicious activities which could represent a threat to public safety. "" ( A bomb threat recently got CNN ' s studios evacuated. )"
497,"Last night , the cast of the smash musical Hamilton thanked Mike Pence for coming to the show and asked him to please "" uphold [ the ] inalienable rights "" of all Americans as vice president. Well , Donald Trump wasn ' t going to let that kind of "" harassment "" slide , USA Today reports. "" Our wonderful future VP Mike Pence was harassed last night at the theater by the cast of Hamilton , cameras blazing.This should not happen ! "" he tweeted. "" The theater must always be a safe and special place.The cast of Hamilton was very rude last night to a very good man , Mike Pence. Apologize ! "" Trump added. The New York Times notes the president elect was supposed to be meeting with potential cabinet members at the time. story continues below Brandon Victor Dixon , the Hamilton actor who addressed Pence on behalf of the cast and crew , responded to Trump : "" Conversation is not harassment sir. And I appreciate [ Pence ] for stopping to listen. "" Hamilton creator Lin-Manuel Miranda also weighed in , tweeting that he was proud of Dixon for "" leading with love "" and "" proud to remind you that all are welcome at the theater. "" Hamilton producer Jeffrey Seller tells the Times that Trump has not as yet seen the show , but he ' s welcome any time. While the cast may have been polite and welcoming to Pence , the audience went a different way , roundly booing the vice-president elect when he arrived. ( Read more Hamilton stories. )"
498,"Predicting earthquakes is all but impossible , but a new study is being hailed as an important first step. The takeaway : Big quakes are preceded by smaller ones , reports the Los Angeles Times. Researchers took advantage of a new technique developed to find previously undetectable "" microquakes , "" some as small as negative 2 magnitude. Poring over what National Geographic labels a "" massive dataset "" of big and small California quakes based on that technique , the researchers found a clear pattern : Between 2007 and 2018 , 72 % of Southern California earthquakes of at least magnitude 4 were preceded by smaller quakes. It  s very much a first step and big leap forward in improving our understanding of earthquake processes ,  says geologist Wendy Bohon of the Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology , who was not a part of the study. story continues below Researchers are emphasizing that "" first step "" part  that we ' re a long way from being able to make reliable predictions based on existing data. But the research suggests that statistical forecasts are a future possibility  for example , if computers detect microquakes close to a fault. "" It ' s a little like the history of weather forecasting , where it has taken hundreds of years of steady progress to get where we are today , "" says Daniel Trugman of Los Alamos National Laboratory in a press release. He is co-author of the new study in Geophysical Research Letters. The study notes that most small quakes fizzle out without leading to anything bigger , but the study could help scientists better understand when those smaller quakes become something to worry about. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
499,"The $ 22 billion bottled water business is rife with odd logic : It takes 1.39 liters of water to make one liter of bottled water , for example , and much of the nation ' s supply is being drawn from a state parched by drought , the Atlantic reports. Why , then , do we get so much of our bottled water from California ? More than 100 bottled-water facilities operate in the state , taking advantage of a lack of groundwater regulations. "" In other words , if you ' re a water company and you drill down and find water in California , it ' s all yours , "" writes Julia Lurie. Plus , state and local water-planning officials aren ' t privy to the details. "" We have not been given any restrictions on tap water use for producing our bottled water , "" Essentia founder Ken Uptain tells CNBC. ( About 55 % of bottled is from groundwater and the rest is simply treated tap water. ) story continues below Three years into the drought , homeowners are being fined for water use and resources are dwindling  but water companies such as Dasani , Aquafina , and Cystal Geyser keep on bottling in California. Consumers demand it : Americans drink 29.2 gallons of bottled water each year on average , translating to 10 billion gallons and $ 12 billion in sales in 2012 alone. A backlash appears to be growing , however : "" This industry has very successfully turned a public resource into a private commodity , "" says author Peter Gleick. And a Fordham professor puts it this way : "" Bottled water is a massive profit industry for corporations that have limited responsibility to the local communities from which they draw water. "" ( In related news , "" BPA-free "" doesn ' t necessarily mean your water bottle is safe. )"
500,"For those who can ' t face Thanksgiving without pecan pie , you ' re going to pay dearly for the privilege this year : the price tag on the tasty dessert is up by 22 % , reports CNN. Sure , core inflation is a low 2 % , but food prices are on the rise , and pecans are up a whopping 57 % since 2009 , now topping $ 11 per pound. "" There has been a steady price increase in pretty much everything , but the increase this year for pecans was unusual , "" said a Brooklyn baker. story continues below You can thank soaring demand for the nut in China for much of the rise , along with a severe drought in pecan-growing parts of the United States. Texas alone saw its usual harvest of 70 million tons of pecans slashed to as little as just 30 million tons , by some estimates. "" Drought or China , Texas pecans are harder to find and will cost a bit more , but again , we reiterate. There will be pie , "" writes the Dallas Observer. ( Read more pecans stories. )"
501,""" Say some prayers. "" That was the Facebook post from one Texas resident after a chemical plant exploded early Wednesday. The New York Times reports the blast took place in Port Neches at the Texas Petroleum Chemical plant , which produces the colorless gas butadiene  a noted health hazard , per CNN  and other fuel products. A TPC statement says the explosion happened around 1am. A rep for Texas ' Emergency Management office says at least three people were hurt , all apparently plant workers : One came out of it with a broken arm , while a second suffered burns. It ' s not clear what injuries the third person sustained , but they ' ve already been treated and released from the hospital , per the rep. story continues below All employees have been evacuated from the plant. "" The event is ongoing but will be brought under control as quickly and safely as possible , "" TPC notes. NBC News rounds up other locals ' reactions , with reports of blown-in doors and windows , as well as doorknobs shooting across the room. "" The shockwave felt like my house got hit by a wrecking ball , "" one resident says. The Times , which says the blast left "" the night sky orange with fire , "" notes oil-soaked Texas has been the site of multiple explosions and fires at chemical plants over the past few years , including several blazes in the Houston area. The fire department in Nederland posted online that a mandatory evacuation was in place for anyone within a half-mile of the TPC plant , per KHOU 11. ( Read more explosion stories. )"
502,"The Pacific Ocean ' s Mariana Trench contains the deepest point in all the world ' s oceans. But despite its nearly eight-mile depth ( Mount Everest , by comparison , doesn ' t hit six miles ) , Challenger Deep is also home to life , a study finds. Researchers sent a robot into Challenger Deep in 2010 to measure the oxygen being consumed at the spot , an indicator of life. An analysis of the sediment it recovered there points to the presence of 10 times the amount of bacteria it identified at an area only about half that deep nearby , Smithsonian reports. story continues below Video taken on the floor also showed that some far bigger creatures live down there : The team was able to trap crustaceans known as Hirondellea gigas , which measure less than an inch in length. It ' s all a surprise because it ' s so dark down there  and most underwater food chains are reliant on photosynthetic plankton that need light. And while organic matter from the surface does filter downward , LiveScience reports that only 1 % to 2 % of it makes it to the ocean ' s average depth of 2.3 miles. Scientists believe the trench catches nutrients when earthquakes rattle the surrounding area. "" It acts as a trap just because it ' s a big hole , "" says a researcher. The findings point to the possibility of thriving life in other trenches. ( Read more Mariana Trench stories. )"
503,"A powerful earthquake has struck New Zealand near the city of Christchurch , with strong jolts felt over 120 miles away in the capital , Wellington. There were no immediate reports of major damage or injuries , reports the AP. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center at first reported that there was no risk of a tsunami , but later changed that advisory and advised people on South Island to move to higher ground , adds CBS News. The magnitude-7.8 quake struck just after midnight Sunday and was centered 57 miles northeast of Christchurch , according to the US Geological Survey. It was at a relatively shallow depth of 6 miles. Earthquakes tend to be more strongly felt on the surface when they ' re shallow. New Zealand sits on the "" Ring of Fire , "" an arc of seismic faults around the Pacific Ocean where earthquakes are common. An earthquake in 2011 in Christchurch killed 185 people. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
504,"A northern Indiana house fire killed two adults and four children early Wednesday , and the father of three of the victims was found dead a few hours after the blaze and miles away in what a local police chief on Thursday called a "" coincidence. "" The fire outside Logansport killed Joseph Huddleston , 42 ; his 10-year-old daughter , Kadee Huddleston , his stepdaughter , Brandi Vail , 25 ; and her three children , 3-year-old Swayzee Hite , 1-year-old Rhylie Hite , and 3-month-old Marshall Hite , police said. Daniel Hite was found dead a few hours later in a home in Flora , about 15 miles southwest of Logansport , Flora Police Chief Paul Redmon told WLFI-TV. His age wasn ' t provided , and his cause of death wasn ' t clear Thursday , the AP reports. Redmon said it was a "" coincidence "" that Hite and his children died just hours apart. story continues below The Logansport home that was engulfed by flames had no working smoke detectors , Indiana State Police Sgt. Tony Slocum said Thursday. There is no evidence the fire was intentionally set , Slocum said in a news release. Investigators have completed an inspection of the entire burned-out home and debris , and major appliances such as the stove and water heater have been ruled out as sources of the fire about 70 miles north of Indianapolis. "" There is some evidence indicating the fire could have been caused by an electrical issue , but due to the destruction caused by the fire , the cause remains as undetermined , "" Slocum said. Indiana State Fire Marshal Jim Greeson has ruled the fire accidental. Joseph Huddleston ' s wife , Shelia Huddleston , 43 , and his son , Brandon Huddleston , 19 , escaped the fire and were hospitalized with non-life-threatening injuries , Slocum said. ( A man is accused of killing his brother ' s entire family and setting their house ablaze. )"
505,"Rescuers are now citing "" the Almighty "" as one of their last hopes for getting 15 coal miners out of a "" rat-hole "" mine in the Indian state of Meghalaya. Per ABC News , things look dire for the trapped men , who didn ' t emerge from the mine on Dec. 13 , and those seeking to rescue them have been hampered by flooding inside the mine and a lack of equipment needed to drain it. NDTV notes that nearly a dozen 100-horsepower pumps are needed to clear the water so that divers can enter the mine and search for the missing , but "" those pumps are not available with the Meghalaya government , "" officials say. A couple of 25-horsepower pumps were being used , but they weren ' t effective. Per NDTV , high-powered pumps sent to rescue a boys soccer team in Thailand earlier this year came from an Indian company , making the lack of pumps for this local rescue even more frustrating. story continues below Coal mining in Meghalaya is a hot topic : It can be extremely lucrative , but it also wreaks havoc on the environment , so it was banned in the state in 2014. However , illegal and often perilous "" rat-hole "" mines started popping up soon after , in which locals use simple tools to burrow into the ground. The Times of India notes that sometimes even children are recruited to head underground to bring up the coal. The leader of a local indigenous group tells ABC that even the hopes of retrieving the men ' s bodies should they die is iffy , due to the extreme saltiness of the water in the mine. "" It is possible that the bodies may disintegrate and never be recovered by the authorities , "" he says. ( A West Virginia man has been accused of entering a mine to have sex , among other things. )"
506,"And you thought 2016 was a rough year. Humanity is apparently in for a disaster equal to World War II or a cholera epidemic , based on an ancient vial of blood. According to legend , a woman collected the blood of Saint Januarius , or San Gennaro  the once pious bishop of Naples who was beheaded as Christianity was under attack around AD 305  and preserved it in a glass vial , reports Seeker. Then a "" blood miracle "" in 1389 : the congealed blood liquefied. The archbishop of Naples now performs this "" blood miracle , "" shaking the vial in front of thousands until the blood liquefies , on three significant days each year , the most recent of which should have been Dec. 16. ( Mount Vesuvius erupted on that day in 1631 , and Naples was said to have been protected by the saint. ) And yet last week , it didn ' t. story continues below One website claims that when the blood miracle  which is "" not quite sanctioned by the Catholic Church , "" per the Week  has failed to work , 22 epidemics , 19 earthquakes , four wars , and various other tragedies have followed. When the blood last failed to liquefy in 1980 , an earthquake struck 30 miles from Naples , killing 2,400 people. The blood also remained congealed in 1939 , the year World War II began. But "" we must not think of calamities , "" says the local abbot , per the Catholic News Agency. "" We are men of faith and we must pray. "" As for what men of science think , the New York Times in 1991 reported on a study that suggested medieval chemists could have created artificial blood that would liquefy upon shaking. The scientists noted the church wouldn ' t allow the vial to be opened and analyzed. ( The blood partially liquefied for Pope Francis. )"
507,"An Asian American woman who spent 17 years in prison is going free partly because of racist emails about her , BuzzFeed reports. Frances Choy , 34 , who was convicted in 2003 of killing her parents in a Massachusetts house fire got life behind bars  but a judge vacated her conviction last month after the prosecutors ' racist emails emerged. "" This may be the first case in the US where a murder conviction has been thrown out because of racism on the part of prosecutors , "" Choy ' s attorney , John Barter , tells WBUR. According to a judge ' s motion , prosecutors Karen O ' Sullivan and John Bradley exchanged "" racially and sexually offensive emails "" that degraded and mocked Choy and her nephew , 16-year-old Kenneth , who survived the blaze that killed Choy ' s parents. story continues below The case itself is a hot mess. Police testified that gasoline was found on Choy ' s sweatpants , but a reevaluation turned up nothing. Notes in Kenneth ' s handwriting detailed a plan for the crime , but he claimed Frances directed him to write the notes and appeared to set the fire. Choy ' s attorneys apparently failed to pursue a witness who said Kenneth had confessed , while police say Choy confessed but retracted her confession. Kenneth fled to Hong Kong before the trial and was later acquitted in the case. Out of all this prosecutors managed to convict Choy , but the racist emails and contradictory evidence led to her release. "" It has been a tough and long journey , "" she tells the Enterprise News. "" I ' m relieved that the truth has been revealed and to have my life back beyond prison walls. "" ( Read more wrongful conviction stories. )"
508,"Don ' t confuse the original Noah ' s Ark with the Ark Encounter  only the latter is suing its insurers over rain damage , CNN reports. The Kentucky attraction , which boasts a $ 120 million replica of the biblical ark , was affected when heavy rainfall in 2017 and 2018 caused a landslide on the property and hampered access to the ark. "" You got to get to the boat to be on the boat , "" spokeswoman Melany Ethridge tells the Courier-Journal. But five insurance carriers are refusing to pay almost $ 1 million for a new retaining wall and other repairs designed to ease access to the boat , per the Washington Post. Insurers say their policy excludes payments for faulty workmanship or design deficiencies. story continues below Then there ' s the possible issue of fake news. "" Contrary to some reporting , the damage to certain areas of the Ark Encounter themed attraction was not caused by a ' flood , ' "" says Ethridge. "" The ark was built on bedrock and was never in jeopardy. "" The 510-foot-long wooden ark  which Fox News calls "" life-size ""  is part of an attraction that generated controversy when it opened in 2016. The ACLU and other groups sued over their hiring practices ; employees have to sign a document rejecting evolution and declaring homosexuality a sin. The site was built by the ministry Answers in Genesis , whose leader , Ken Ham , calls the Bible is an accurate historical narrative and says humans lived alongside dinosaurs. ( Read more Ark Encounter stories. )"
509,"Russia is used to damaging wildfires. A Greenpeace study found that 4.7 billion trees in Russia were lost to fire last year , seven times the number planted. And this year is worse. The blazes burning now in Siberia are larger than all other wildfires around the world combined , the Washington Post reports. That includes fires in the US , Greece , Turkey , Italy , and Canada , per Live Science. The count : 69 fires are being allowed to burn , because they ' re too tough to fight or are out of the reach of towns and infrastructure. 190 wildfires in Siberia are being fought and have closed roads and airports and prompted evacuations. 8,600 crews , including soldiers , are battling the fires , and local authorities are asking for more. 62,300 square miles have been lost to the fires this year , by Greenpeace ' s count , which could turn out to be the worst on record , passing 2012. $ 81 million is the current firefighting budget , which a minister wants raised to nearly $ 190 million. story continues below Concern has developed slowly. "" Officials just lie about the scale of it , "" a Greenpeace official said , because bad news is unwelcome among government bosses. They still try that , but with satellite images widely available , he said , "" it ' s no longer possible to hide the fire. "" The Yakutia region ' s boss blamed climate change last week. "" We are living through the hottest , driest summer in the history of meteorological measurements since the end of the 19th century , "" he told state media. Conspiracy theories are pervasive , too , with rumors spreading that government or business officials set fires to hide illegal logging. That ' s made things worse , a forest official said. "" When people are sure that the forest is burned down by criminal intent , they don  t think to exercise caution themselves , "" he said. "" And now ordinary people are coming to the forests and leaving unextinguished fires there. "" On Tuesday , Russian President Vladimir Putin did order more firefighters and aircraft to Yakutia. ( Read more Siberia stories. )"
510,"After being trapped for 24 hours , a woman was pulled from the rubble of the Pyne Gould Corp. building in Christchurch today , a rare bright spot on a dark day in New Zealand. Ann Bodkin had taken cover under her desk during yesterday  s 6.3-magnitude earthquake , and the sun came out the moment she was removed from the building ,  says Christchurch  s mayor. It was like God tuned on the lights.  Bodkin was one of about 30 people rescued from that building and the Canterbury Television building today , CNN reports. story continues below Ann Voss was also rescued , according to local media. Voss had spoken to the media on her cell phone while trapped beneath the rubble , and said she  d even called her children to say goodbye. In the Pyne Gould building , at least 22 people were still trapped , but workers abandoned the rescue operation at Canterbury Television , calling damage to the structure not survivable.  Hundreds are still missing , including 10 Japanese students and teachers who were visiting the city when the quake hit and could be trapped in a local college. Click for more on the tragedy. ( Read more New Zealand stories. )"
511,"Leaders of the Group of Seven nations said Sunday they are preparing to help Brazil battle fires burning across the Amazon region and repair the damage even as tens of thousands of soldiers got ready to join the fight against blazes that have caused global alarm , the AP reports. French President Emmanuel Macron said the summit leaders were nearing an agreement on how to support Brazil and said the agreement would involve both technical and financial mechanisms "" so that we can help them in the most effective way possible. "" German Chancellor Angela Merkel said her country and others will talk with Brazil about reforestation in the Amazon once fires there have been extinguished. "" Of course ( this is ) Brazilian territory , but we have a question here of the rainforests that is really a global question , "" she said. story continues below "" The lung of our whole Earth is affected , and so we must find common solutions , "" she added. Pope Francis also added his voice to the chorus of concern over the fires in Brazil , which borders his homeland of Argentina , and urged people to pray so that "" they are controlled as quickly as possible. "" He told a crowd in St. Peter ' s Square that "" we ' re all worried "" about the Amazon fires. He warned that that green "" lung of forest is vital for our planet. "" Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro announced Friday that he would send 44,000 soldiers to help battle the fires that are scattered across his nation ' s share of the vast Amazon , an overall region 10 times the size of Texas that is seen as a global bulwark against climate change. Only a few hundred troops had been sent so far. ( See what Brazil ' s president has told the world about the fires. )"
512,"Rescues continue after last week ' s powerful earthquake in Turkey , and a kitchen appliance may have helped save the life of the latest survivor to be found. A day after a 3-year-old girl was pulled out of the debris of a collapsed building in Izmir , another toddler was found alive in the rubble of a building there , with emotional rescue workers applauding and praying as she was pulled out to safety. The Washington Post notes the little girl has been IDed as Ayda Gezgin , with her age variously reported to be 2 , 3 , or 4. Rescuers say Ayda was found next to a dishwasher and called the space she was curled up in a "" life triangle , "" per CNN. story continues below "" We heard her scream , "" one rescuer told local media. "" We asked her what her name is. She said , ' I ' m fine. ' We asked her to wave her hand and she did. "" A member of Turkey ' s National Medical Rescue Team told local broadcaster TRT that Ayda was "" doing really well , "" was "" conscious , "" and had "" no open wounds. "" Before being transported to the hospital , she reportedly asked for water and a Turkish yogurt drink for kids , as well as asked about her parents ; her dad wasn ' t in the building when it collapsed , but her mother ' s body was found near that of Ayda. "" Get well soon beautiful baby , "" Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan tweeted , posting a video of the little girl waving from her hospital bed , per NBC News. ( Read more Turkey stories. )"
513,"Bernie Sanders was nowhere near the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library last night , but he still emerged as "" one of the surprise stars "" of the GOP debate , according to the Guardian. The Vermont senator covered the debate on his Twitter feed last night and came out with plenty of strong opinions before he decided at 10 : 30pm that he had "" had it "" and called it a night , NPR reports. Some highlights from the #DebateWithBernie live-tweeting : "" Trump. What a pleasant and humble person. Can ' t stop saying kind and generous things about his fellow Republicans. "" "" Rubio knows California has a drought. Will he have the courage to connect that to climate change or reject the science ? "" story continues below "" Gee. How come these guys are not talking about the great ' success ' of Bush ' s foreign policy and the war in Iraq ? "" "" War , war , war. When do we get to their other major priority : tax breaks for billionaires ? "" "" Does anyone on that stage believe the women of this country have the right to control their own bodies ? Anyone ? "" "" Okay. Let ' s vote for Reagan. Sounds better than any of these guys. "" "" Does anyone know ... when will this debate finally end ? "" ( Earlier this week , Sanders managed to get applause from a crowd of conservative Christian students . )"
514,"It took 100 firefighters more than four hours Saturday morning to bring a smoke- and flame-spewing blaze under control at a Fort Lauderdale marina. By the time they ' d put out the worst of it , the inferno had caused what the city ' s Battalion Chief Stephen Gollan now says is the "" biggest fire loss in Fort Lauderdale history. "" Gollan tells the Sun Sentinel that the fire began on the 161-foot Lohengrin , with an estimated worth up to $ 16 million , then spread to the 107-foot Reflections , worth around $ 7 million. The boats , which have different owners , were temporarily housed at Universal Marine Center as they were being renovated and getting paint jobs. story continues below The blaze was so intense that nearby residents were concerned it would reach their homes , but firefighters made sure that didn ' t happen , per WPLG. "" I heard about three big explosions , "" one witness tells CNN of being woken up by the fire. Luckily , there were no crew members on either boat at the time the fire broke out. The big issue now is putting out any remaining smoldering , as well as keeping fuel from the yachts ' gas tanks from ending up in the New River. Per the Miami Herald , work on both boats was nearing completion ; they were both set to leave the marina over the next few weeks. An investigation is set to begin Monday. ( Read more Fort Lauderdale stories. )"
515,"A plan to safely defuse an enormous World War II bomb found in Poland didn ' t go according to plan on Tuesday. The six-ton British "" Tallboy , "" found under water last year in a canal in the city of Swinoujscie , instead detonated , reports the BBC. Luckily , nobody was hurt , as authorities were well prepared for the possibility. Before the attempt , CNN described the 16-foot-long Tallboy as the biggest unexploded bomb from World War II ever found in Poland. story continues below "" Nobody has ever defused a Tallboy that is so well preserved and underwater , "" Grzegorz Lewandowski , a spokesperson for the Polish Navy , told the AFP ahead of the process. It appears that still holds true. "" The deflagration process turned into detonation , "" Lewandowski said afterward , per Reuters. "" The object can be considered as neutralized. "" All divers on the project were outside the danger zone when it exploded , he added. Hundreds of nearby residents had been evacuated as a precaution. ( Read more bomb stories. )"
516,"The good news : A California man housesitting for his parents didn ' t invite a bunch of people over and trash the place. The bad news : He was able to nearly destroy the house all on his own. Authorities say the man set his parents ' Fresno house on fire when he was trying to kill black widow spiders with a blowtorch , KFSN reports. Twenty-nine firefighters responded to the two-alarm blaze at the Woodward Lake housing development and put it out. There were no injuries , according to reports. ( No word on the spiders. ) The fire damaged the building ' s attic and second story. story continues below The use of fire for pest control appears to be fairly common , often with disastrous results. In April , a man trying to kill insects with a lighter set fire to his house , displacing four adults and six children , the Atlanta Journal Constitution reports. A Kansas woman was reportedly hit with an arson charge after attempting to kill a spider with flaming towels. And there have been multiple past reports of people trying to eradicate bedbugs with flame. In one instance , a Cincinnati woman caused $ 250,000 in damage to an apartment building when she tried to use alcohol and fire to get rid of the pests. In a similar case out of Detroit , a man accidentally lit himself on fire. ( Read more house fire stories. )"
517,"Wyclef Jean ' s ineffective and scandal-plagued charity Yle quietly went belly up last month , after CEO Derek Johnson announced his resignation. "" As the foundation ' s sole remaining employee , my decision implies the closure of the organization as a whole , "" he wrote. In its wake , the charity leaves "" a trail of debts , unfinished projects , and broken promises , "" the New York Times writes in a profile today. In Haiti , there ' s little sign it ever existed ; its headquarters is abandoned , its tents and tarps have disintegrated , and its street cleaning crews have disbanded. story continues below Johnson bailed after Jean  the hip-hop star and would-be president  turned down a settlement from New York ' s attorney general , which has been investigating the charity. The settlement , covering Yle ' s pre-earthquake misdeeds , would have required the charity to submit to a forensic audit , and its founders to pay $ 600,000 to make up for charity funds they wasted. Of course , pre-earthquake Yle was tiny. Post-earthquake it grew , raising $ 9 million in 2010 , of which half went to pay for its own offices , travel expenses , and fees. Money also went to questionable contracts  including some to Jean ' s brother-in-law for projects that never materialized. For much more , including how the charity stiffed orphanages of vegetables , see the source. ( Read more Wyclef Jean stories. )"
518,"Tomi Lahren has filed a wrongful termination lawsuit against Glenn Beck and the Blaze , claiming her employers sought to "" embarrass , humiliate , and undermine "" her , Variety reports. The 24-year-old rising star of conservative commentary was suspended by the Blaze last month following an appearance on The View in which she voiced a pro-choice opinion. Lahren ' s lawsuit , filed Friday in Texas , claims she was then terminated by the Blaze and her nightly talk show permanently cancelled , according to CNN. The lawsuit accuses the Blaze of waging a "" public smear campaign "" against Lahren and causing her "" irreparable harm "" by locking her out of her Facebook page , the Dallas Morning News reports. story continues below A spokesperson for the Blaze says Lahren ' s lawsuit is "" puzzling "" since she hasn ' t technically been terminated. Lahren is still being paid by the Blaze despite no longer appearing on it. The lawsuit claims the Blaze is only paying her until it can figure out a way to legally end her contract , which doesn ' t expire until the end of September. Lahren ' s lawyer says her contract doesn ' t allow her to be fired for expressing her personal views. The lawsuit claims the Blaze , whose staff it says put yellow caution tape over Lahren ' s office door , is using her termination to boost Beck ' s "" mediocre "" following. "" Lay down and play dead really isn ' t my style , "" Lahren tweeted after the lawsuit was filed. ( Read more Tomi Lahren stories. )"
519,"A fire destroyed a barn at a New Hampshire farm that ' s been the backdrop for political events for Republican presidents and candidates through the years. The fire burned down a barn at the Scamman Farm in Stratham , reports the AP , a little after 10 : 30pm on Monday. Fire crews from numerous towns responded. The cause of the fire is under investigation , the Stratham Fire Department said. "" Everyone is safe , our family is safe ! Thank you to everyone for the kind words and most importantly [ t ] hank you to all of the fire fighters that put themselves on the line to keep everyone safe , "" the owners said early Tuesday in a Facebook post. story continues below In 2011 , Mitt Romney announced at the farm that he was running for president. Former Presidents George W Bush and George HW Bush , his father , also had visited the farm. Seacoastonline.com reports the barn that was destroyed was four stories high and dates back to the mid-1800s. It housed about 300 chickens , which were killed in the fire. Damaged but still standing is another barn that dates back to 1750 and is believed to be the oldest structure on the property. The farm was named to the National Register of Historic Places in 2019. ( Read more New Hampshire primary stories. )"
520,"Ben Bernanke isn  t worried about a double-dip recession , despite an economy he acknowledged as unexpectedly troubled this year , reports MarketWatch. I expect hiring to pick up from last month  s pace as growth strengthens in the second half of the year ,  the Fed chairman told a meeting of international bankers in Atlanta. He said that high commodity prices weren  t the Fed  s fault , and that Japan  s earthquake was the cause of poor economic numbers since April. Its effects will wear off in the next few months , he said , helped by the possibility of lower gas prices. story continues below But until we see a sustained period of stronger job creation , we cannot consider the recovery to be truly established ,  he said , adding that inflation should moderate  given stable expectations and commodity prices. ( The market dipped after his speech , apparently because Bernanke signaled no further Fed action. ) Earlier , at a White House press conference with German chancellor Angela Merkel , President Obama sounded a similar theme : I ' m not concerned about a double-dip recession , "" he said , according to Fox News. "" I am concerned about the fact that the recovery that we ' re on is not producing jobs as quickly as I want it to happen.  ( Read more Ben Bernanke stories. )"
521,"Canada will soon be home to the largest protected boreal , or coniferous , forest on the planet. On Tuesday , the Alberta government announced a plan for the creation of three new provincial parks bordering on Wood Buffalo National Park , as well as the creation of a fourth park to the south. The 5,200 square miles of newly protected land will balloon the conservation zone , where logging and oil and gas exploration is banned , to more than 26,000 square miles , roughly the size of West Virginia. A rep for the Nature Conservancy of Canada says the "" incredible size "" makes it "" globally significant , "" per the CBC. "" It ' s really the matrix of forest and wetlands and waters  and we can protect those at a scale that is an opportunity lost in the rest of the world , "" an NCC biologist adds , per the BBC. story continues below Alberta ' s indigenous communities are heavily involved , with education and monitoring agreements for the parks in the works. The Tallcree First Nation also agreed to relinquish its timber license to establish one of the new parks. "" I could almost see the boreal forest coming down around us on a daily basis , "" Chief Rupert Meneen tells the BBC , which notes the area is home to threatened species like the wood bison , woodland caribou , and peregrine falcons. "" It was important we try to at least leave some of the forest for the future generations. "" The move comes shortly after a study found large swaths of Canada ' s boreal forest are at risk of disappearing by the end of the century as a result of climate change elevating the risk of wildfires , drought , and invasive bugs , reports the National Observer. ( Poachers ' new target : ancient trees. )"
522,"The worst flooding in decades has forced around 18,000 people from their homes in eastern Australia  and millions of spiders are also on the move. New South Wales residents say swarms of millions of spiders trying to escape rising waters are heading for higher ground. Residents say the arachnids are climbing fences and walls and entering homes and outbuildings. There were also skinks , ants , basically every insect , crickets  all just trying to get away from the flood waters , "" Shenae Varley tells the Guardian. "" My husband videoed it , because I was not going close to it. When he was standing still he had spiders climbing up his legs. "" Authorities say heavy rain has cut off dozens of communities and emergency services have carried out hundreds of rescues , the AP reports. story continues below Kinchela Creek resident Matt Lovenfosse shared a video of swarms of spiders at his family ' s farm. He says other creatures are also trying to escape some of the worst flooding he has ever seen. "" The trees are full of snakes , "" he tells CNN. "" If you take the boat out over the paddock they swim towards it trying to get on something dry , same with the spiders. "" Arachnologist Lizzy Lowe says the spiders will be "" doing their best to disperse "" when the water recedes and people should try to avoid using insecticide on "" native species trying to do their thing , trying to survive. "" The region has also been dealing with a plague of mice following a bumper grain harvest. Reuters reported last week that farmers were hoping for rain heavy enough to drown the rodents in their burrows. ( Read more Australia stories. )"
523,"For Native Americans living in the 12th century , Cahokia was the place to be. Now researchers think they ' ve uncovered a major reason why the hub located near what is now St. Louis disappeared  massive flooding of the Mississippi River. Researchers dug up soil samples from two local lakes and found telltale evidence of catastrophic flooding around the time that Cahokia was flourishing. We  re talking big floods , once a century ,  a researcher from the University of Wisconsin-Madison tells the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. It seems that the region enjoyed an unusually flood-free period from roughly 600AD to 1200AD. In that time , people flocked to the fertile region , turning Cahokia into what National Geographic calls the "" largest prehistoric settlement in the United States. "" ( Another National Geographic piece frames it as "" America ' s first city. "" ) story continues below But they may have gotten too complacent. People began moving from higher elevations into what we now know to be a flood plain , and the population boomed with the cultivation of maize. It peaked around the mid-12th century , but the resumption of regular floods appeared to begin taking a toll. By about 1350 , the city had been abandoned. Previous theories on its demise have focused on deforestation , overhunting , political volatility , and , especially , drought. We are not arguing against the role of drought in Cahokia  s decline , but this presents another piece of information ,  says the lead author of the study at the university. Another researcher suggests the flooding could have been the final straw. It would have had a particularly destabilizing effect after hundreds of years without large floods. "" ( Maybe an ancient brewery would have helped ? )"
524,"As rescuers scramble to find survivors in the debris after Thursday ' s 6.5-magnitude earthquake in southern Japan , a bit of encouraging news at the site of a collapsed home , per CBS News : An unharmed 8-month-old baby was yanked from the rubble and given back to her parents after a six-hour rescue effort. story continues below NBC News reports that the infant was sleeping on the first floor of a home in Mashiki when the temblor struck ; her mom , brother , and grandparents were said to be in the kitchen and living room. Per Nippon TV , roof crossbeams that fell around the baby formed a pocket that kept her safe. ( "" I thought I was going to die , "" another survivor tells the AP. )"
525,"Hurricane Florence unleashed torrential rain , dangerous wind gusts , and now a new environmental hazard in North Carolina : the overflowing of its hog manure lagoons  and it ' s "" nasty , "" per the New York Times. Many of North Carolina ' s nearly 10 million pigs are located on large-scale farms in Duplin and Sampson counties , both hit hard by the hurricane. The North Carolina Pork Council is insisting pig producers have learned from previous storms and that only two dozen or so hog lagoons ( some as large as Olympic-size swimming pools , per Quartz ) were impacted by Florence , either via breaches caused by rain-induced erosion , overflow from too much rain , or "" inundation "" by floodwaters. But the state ' s Department of Environmental Quality said that , as of Tuesday at noon , more than 50 others were also close to spewing pig waste into the environment. story continues below Per the NCPC , the lagoons are designed to absorb close to two dozen inches of rain , but Florence ' s rainfall was at that level , or close to it , in some places , notes the Washington Post. NPR notes the hog lagoons  holes in the ground where pig excrement is flushed , along with water and anaerobic bacteria  have long been the subject of "" intense political controversy , "" and research has indeed linked health issues to the farms. The hogs themselves were also affected by the storm , with the AP reporting about 5,500 of them were killed in North Carolina after swollen rivers flooded nearby farms , per the state ' s Department of Agriculture. About 3.4 million turkeys and chickens also perished , and because dozens of poultry farms are now surrounded by floodwaters , feed deliveries may be stalled and more birds may die , one of the state ' s major poultry producers says. ( Read more Hurricane Florence stories. )"
526,"When we think about building-leveling earthquakes in California , it can seem like the San Andreas fault is the only game in town. Heck , The Rock even made a movie about it. But a study published last week in Science Advances finds the San Andreas could have an equally dangerous partner in creating the state ' s next catastrophic quake. The Los Angeles Times reports geophysics professor Julian Lozos , while trying to solve the mystery of the earthquake of 1812 , determined that it ' s possible the San Andreas fault combined with the San Jacinto fault to cause a magnitude-7.5 earthquake  and could do so again. According to a press release , the 1812 earthquake was one of the biggest in California ' s history and now appears to have been caused when a rupture in the San Jacinto spread to the San Andreas. story continues below "" People shouldn ' t just be thinking about the San Andreas fault , "" Lozos says in the press release. The lesser-known San Jacinto could actually be a more serious "" seismic hazard "" because it runs directly under a number of population centers east of Los Angeles. If it combined with the San Andreas to create a "" Big One ""  as evidence shows it has in the past  the resulting earthquake could kill more than 1,000 people while destroying buildings and starting fires , what the Times calls a "" grim seismic scenario. "" Lozos says it ' s important to understand how one fault rupturing can trigger ruptures in others. A recent report taking similar multi-fault thinking into account raised California ' s odds for having a magnitude-8 or larger earthquake by 2045 from 4.7 % to 7 % . ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
527,"As coronavirus records are smashed across the US , Joe Biden isn ' t wasting any time in starting to address "" one of the most important battles our administration will face. "" On Monday morning , the president-elect announced a 13-member Transition COVID-19 Advisory Board to "" help shape my approach to managing the surge in reported infections ; ensuring vaccines are safe , effective , and distributed efficiently , equitably , and free ; and protecting at-risk populations , "" per an emailed statement from Biden cited by Axios. Three co-chairs will helm the panel : Vivek Murthy , the former surgeon general ; ex-FDA Commissioner David Kessler ; and Yale University ' s Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith. "" I will be informed by science and by experts , "" Biden said in his release. story continues below Axios notes the "" wealth of experience "" on the panel , which will inform Biden ' s team on how to tackle the COVID-19 problem once he takes office. Other members on the board include vaccine expert Dr. Rick Bright , the whistleblower who said he was forced to resign in October from a high-ranking Health and Human Services position because he refused to flood the New York area with hydroxychloroquine ; infectious diseases expert Eric Goosby , who served in both the Clinton and Obama administrations ; and Michael Osterholm , director of the University of Minnesota ' s Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy. ABC News reports Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris will receive a briefing from the board Monday. Biden ' s plan to go after COVID-19 includes increased testing and contact tracing , more investment in vaccines and treatment , possible mask mandates , more PPE , and rejoining the World Health Organization , per CNN. Check out who else is on the panel. ( Read more President-elect Biden stories. )"
528,"All 222 passengers and 19 crew from a Singapore Airlines flight are safe and unharmed after a terrifying incident early Monday. The airline says the Boeing 777-3000 was on its way from Singapore to Milan when the pilot decided to turn back after receiving an engine oil warning message , the AP reports. It landed back at Singapore ' s Changi Airport more then four hours later  and just after it came to a halt , its right engine burst into flames as horrified passengers looked on. "" By the time the fire engines reached the plane , the flames were about a meter high , "" passenger Amit Jain tells Today. "" When we could see the flames rising , some people were trying to remove their bags from the overhead compartments , which was crazy , "" he says. "" I heard a few people scream ' Open the doors ! ' and ' Let us out ! ' "" story continues below The airline and the airport say the blaze was extinguished within minutes , CNN reports. The passengers were transferred to another flight to Milan. Passengers say they could smell oil while the plane was in the air , but they didn ' t realize how close to death they were until afterward , the BBC reports. Analyst Greg Waldron at Flightglobal says it appears the pilots did everything right by turning back when they discovered the problem and dumping fuel along the way. "" When the plane slows down as you land , fuel can cling to the wing and surfaces. Sparks from the hot brakes after they landed could have the triggered the fire and it does appear quite dramatic. But they appear to have gotten that under control very quickly , "" he says , per Reuters. "" There don ' t appear to be any procedural issues here. "" ( Read more Singapore Airlines stories. )"
529,"A wildfire is raging on the property of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles , but don ' t fret about its masterpieces being turned to ash. The building is a "" fireproof fortress "" specifically designed to withstand natural disasters like earthquakes and wildfires , per the Guardian. The art is safest inside the museum situated on nearly 25 acres as "" our buildings are stone , concrete and steel "" and "" the rooftops are stone , to prevent embers from landing and igniting , "" spokeswoman Lisa Lapin tells CNN. There ' s also a fancy air filtration system that pushes and pulls air , allowing officials to keep smoke away from the double-enclosed galleries , which are actually buildings inside of other thick-walled buildings. Extra layers of protection sit outside the galleries , which have now been sealed. story continues below Beneath fire retardant plants is a sprinkler system connected to a million-gallon water tank. "" We can use it for our own fire prevention , "" Lapin tells the Guardian , which reports firetrucks were "" awaiting commands "" in the museum ' s parking areas on Monday as the fire was "" licking parts of remote canyons nearby. "" Perhaps sparked by a downed power pole , the Getty Fire has burned more than 618 acres , destroyed eight homes , and damaged six others , reports Bloomberg , which notes the evacuation area includes some of Los Angeles ' wealthiest neighborhoods , in addition to the museum. "" The good news is that the fire has not grown at all , "" Mayor Eric Garcetti said at a news conference Monday. However , dry winds are now expected across the region , per Bloomberg. ( LeBron James was forced to flee. )"
530,"Cancel its world-famous New Year ' s Eve fireworks show ? No way , say Australian officials , despite concerns about holding the event while over 100 wildfires rage across the country , CNN reports. Under pressure to cancel , Sydney ' s Lord Mayor Clover Moore said she was "" moved by the outpouring of support and care for the community "" but won ' t budge , adding that "" our fireworks are planned 15 months in advance and most of the budget  which is largely allocated to crowd safety and cleaning measures  has already been spent. "" The city council says it ' s already giving nearly $ 433,000 to "" support communities and wildlife "" affected by fires and drought , while canceling would "" hurt Sydney businesses "" and ruin plans for everyone visiting to see the show. story continues below But Linda McCormick isn ' t so sure. She posted an online petition saying the show ' s budget should go to "" farmers and firefighters , "" while the display itself could "" traumatize some people as there is enough smoke in the air. "" She claims Sydney spent about $ 4 million on last year ' s show , which CNN couldn ' t confirm. Others note severe fire risk is expected Tuesday night as temperatures are forecast to hover around 100 degrees Fahrenheit , accompanied by strong northerly winds  which luckily are forecast to shift south before nightfall , per Australia ' s News Network. If weather looks dicey , officials say , they might cancel the fireworks or alter the ones they use. Prime Minister Scott Morrison says the show tells the world "" just how optimistic and positive we are as a country. "" ( Read more Australia stories. )"
531,"Two things you never want to see together : an inextinguishable underground fire and a nuclear waste dump. But they ' re only 1,200 feet apart in an area north of St. Louis and may be growing closer , the AP reports. The underground fire at Bridgeton Landfill has been burning for five years and releasing unpleasant smells into nearby neighborhoods , but the county government ' s worst-case scenario plan  revealed by KMOX  was written only last year. This "" is not an indication of any imminent danger , "" says County Executive Steve Stenger. And the landfill ' s operator , Republic Services , says safeguards ( like structures that grab gasses from below the surface ) exist to separate the waste from the blaze. The landfill "" is safe and intensively monitored , "" says a spokesman. story continues below Yet the emergency plan notes that flames could reach the nuclear waste and send radioactive smoke over communities near the main St. Louis airport "" with little or no warning. "" And a state lawsuit against Republic Services claimed that pollutants and radiation are already spreading from the site , the Missouri Times reported last month. What ' s more , expert-witness reports released by Attorney General Koster claim the blaze is moving closer to the waste. The landfill itself is part of a bigger history , City Lab reports , harking back to "" the lethal legacy of uranium processing "" around St. Louis as part of the Manhattan Project during the Second World War. As for the fire , its cause is unknown , but it ' s not alone : Nearly 100 such blazes are burning in mines across nine US states , and one has burned in a Pennsylvania town dump for over 50 years. ( Maybe nuclear waste is safest when stored in salt beds ? )"
532,"Officials say they couldn ' t have designed "" an equally flammable place "" as the Oakland warehouse where 36 people died in California ' s deadliest structure blaze in more than a century  but Oakland ' s planning director says inspectors had no idea. Darin Ranelletti says inspectors hadn ' t stepped foot in the building in 30 years , though they ' d responded to complaints regarding the exterior  including piles of trash and graffiti  as recently as last month , per the San Francisco Chronicle. Ranelletti says an inspector issued a notice of violation on Nov. 18 , but couldn ' t gain entry to the property. It ' s unclear why , though he notes a warrant is needed without compliance from the property owner. But if inspectors didn ' t see the inside of the property , former tenants , visitors , and neighbors say police and fire officials certainly did. story continues below They say fire officials had entered the building at least twice in the last two and a half years  Oakland ' s fire chief couldn ' t confirm the visits , per CNN  while police officers went inside at least six times , reports Reuters. Police reports make note of the visits , which witnesses say revealed fire hazards , but the president of the Oakland Police Officers ' Association says it ' s "" ludicrous "" to expect police to be "" responsible for code enforcement. "" Officials believe the fire started on the first floor and reached stairwells leading to the second floor before occupants above had any idea ; there were no smoke alarms. Says the director of the Governor ' s Office of Emergency Services : "" It ' s excruciating to walk through , to possibly relive those last moments when persons knew there was a fire and there was no way out. "" ( Read more Oakland fire stories. )"
533,"More Americans than ever before believe they have the right stuff to become astronauts , ABC News reports. According to NASA , it received more than 18,300 applications for the astronaut class of 2017 over the past two months. That ' s almost three times more than for the last class in 2012 and far more than the record 8,000 applications it received in 1978. It  s not at all surprising to me that so many Americans from diverse backgrounds want to personally contribute to blazing the trail on our journey to Mars ,  NASA administrator Charlie Bolden says. In addition to excitement about Mars , Ars Technica credits NASA ' s use of social media and the portrayal of astronauts in The Martian for the record number of applications. story continues below NASA will take the next 18 months to narrow down the applications to between eight and 14 astronaut candidates , who will go through two years of training in everything from team dynamics to the Russian language. We have our work cut out for us with this many applications ,  a NASA director of flight operations says. But it  s heartening to know so many people recognize what a great opportunity this is to be part of NASA  s exciting mission. "" While interest in being an astronaut is up , actual opportunities for going into space are down by about 90 % . The space shuttle retired in 2011 , and Ars Technica believes it ' s unlikely the mission to Mars well get underway by the early 2030s. Until then , space exploration opportunities will largely be limited to trips to and from the International Space Station. ( Read more astronauts stories. )"
534,"Wisdom the Laysan albatross is "" at least "" 63 years old , experts say , making her the oldest known wild bird on the planet. And , amazingly , she ' s still hatching chicks. Last week , a worker at the Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge  Wisdom ' s home in the north Pacific  saw the mother caring for a new chick , according to a press release. And it ' s a feat she ' s managed for each of the past seven years , LiveScience notes. For comparison , most Laysan albatrosses live between 12 and 40 years , per the US Fish &amp; Wildlife Service. Wisdom first came to the attention of researchers while incubating an egg ... in 1956. She was tagged then , and has likely raised no fewer than 30 chicks in her lifetime. story continues below Wisdom ' s "" ability to continue to hatch chicks during the last half century is beyond impressive "" given "" the threats that albatross face at sea , "" says a biologist. Chief among those threats : tsunamis. Battered by five-foot waves in the wake of Japan ' s 2011 earthquake , some 2,000 adult albatrosses on Midway ' s islands were estimated to have died ; Wisdom obviously survived. And she ' s racked up many such feats , says the refuge manager. Among them : She ' s "" logged literally millions of miles over the Pacific Ocean in her lifetime to find enough fish eggs and squid to feed herself and multiple chicks. "" ( We noted last year that the second-oldest albatross known to hatch a chick was 61. )"
535,"For a limited time , you can feast your eyes on "" Spanish Stonehenge ""  which has been unseen in full in more than 50 years. The ancient monument officially known as the Dolmen of Guadalperal  a circle of 150 stones up to 6 feet tall on Spain ' s Peraleda de la Mata coast  was excavated in the 1920s but submerged in 1963 when Spain flooded the region to build the Valdecanas Reservoir. Portions of the monument , apparently built to showcase the summer solstice on the shores of the Tagus River up to 7,000 years ago , have pierced the water ' s surface under dry conditions in the years since , reports Live Science. But now , owing to a months-long drought , the stones are fully exposed , as shown in images captured by NASA ' s Landsat 8 satellite in July. story continues below "" It ' s spectacular because you can appreciate the entire complex for the first time in decades , "" Angel Castao , the president of the local cultural association , tells Atlas Obscura. "" All my life , people had told me about the dolmen "" so "" when we saw it  it felt like we had discovered a megalithic monument ourselves. "" The dolmen long ago lost its top , which would ' ve ensured a dark inner chamber where death rituals likely took place. But more stones have fallen and some others have cracked since the monument was last seen. Castao is one of 43,000 people urging the Spanish government to move the monument , believed to be thousands of years older than England ' s Stonehenge , while it has the chance. ( Read more Spain stories. )"
536,"Climate change could thaw the frozen landscape of Asian Russia enough by the 2080s to make it more habitable for humans , new research has found , and possibly lead to Siberia becoming the center of Russian civilization. A team from the Krasnoyarsk Federal Research Center in Russia and the National Institute of Aerospace in the US projected the potential for settlement throughout the century , using both current data and predicted climate scenarios , Phys.org reports. The results were published in Environmental Research Letters. "" Previous human migrations have been associated with climate change , "" the authors said , and it could happen again. Asian Russia accounts for 77 % of Russia ' s land mass , but only 27 % of its people ; the population is concentrated in the south , which the most comfortable climate of the region. story continues below Under one scenario involving extreme climate change , permafrost coverage of the region could drop from 65 % to 40 % by 2080. The warming could cause natural hazards such as droughts and thunderstorms , per Newsweek , and the researchers warn that "" the transition period for adjusting to new environments would be complex and hard. "" Saying that climate change is unavoidable at this point , the researchers said governments need to enact policies to develop infrastructure and agriculture for a warmer region now. If that happens , they say , "" We expect that Siberia may be attractive for human habitability. "" In fact , the researchers told Newsweek , "" Siberia may become the center of Russian civilization and a land of great opportunity. "" ( Read more Siberia stories. )"
537,"In a move likely to be controversial ,  Japanese regulators have granted an operations extension for an aging nuclear reactor similar to the ones at the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant that melted down following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami , Reuters reports. The 40-year-old Tokai Daini reactor , which was also damaged in 2011 , was approved on Wednesday for a 20-year lifetime extension  a first such extension for a boiling water reactor  despite previous promises by the government to retire reactors at 40 years. According to Reuters , the decision will help the country  s main utilities provider , Japan Atomic Power Co , which has been bleeding cash  after the shutdown of two nuclear power plants. story continues below About a million people live within a 20-mile radius of Tokai Daini , which is located some 60 miles from Tokyo. Local opposition has been strong , according to reports , but many are reticent to express their opinion , an Australian living in the area tells Reuters. The mayor of Naka city , which is near the reactor , has said there is no way to evacuate all the people living near the reactor , saying , no matter how much time is spent on them , it won  t be possible to set up escape plans.  Among planned safety improvements for the reactor is a tsunami protection wall. The plant is not expected to go back online until sometime in the 2020s. ( Japan had a big plan. Now it just has a lot of plutonium. )"
538,"When Elon Musk called the British diver aiding in the rescue of a Thai soccer team stuck in a flooded cave pedo guy ,  it was an imaginative attack   not a statement of fact. And because of that , the Tesla founder  s attorneys argue , a defamation lawsuit filed in September against Musk by Vernon Unsworth should not go forward , USA Today reports. "" Musk  s statements cannot reasonably be read as asserting underlying knowledge that Unsworth was a pedophile , "" reads a motion of dismissal filed in California. Even if offensive , such speculative insults are by their nature opinion and protected by the First Amendment. "" Musk targeted Unsworth in July after the diver dismissed Musk  s offer to help in the rescue with a mini submarine and , reportedly , an underwater air tunnel. story continues below Unsworth said the ideas wouldn  t work and it was all a publicity stunt , adding He can stick his submarine where it hurts.  Musk  s subsequent comments  which included accusations that Unsworth was a child rapist  bent on taking a child bride  were an attempt to defend the billionaire  s honor and that of his business entities , the motion states , per CNBC. Musk was shocked by Unsworth  s indefensible and baseless attacks ,  court documents say. So he , took to Twitter  a social networking website infamous for invective and hyperbole  to respond. "" Unsworth  s lawyer tells CNBC that he believes the suit will go forward , saying I entirely reject Mr. Musk  s frivolous contention that all statements published on Twitter  are protected speech.  ( Read more Elon Musk stories. )"
539,"James Comey has penned an opinion piece in response to the Department of Justice  s much anticipated internal watchdog report , which criticizes the former FBI director  s actions surrounding the agency  s investigation of Hillary Clinton  s email account. The inspector general  s 500-plus page report faulted Comey for announcing the completion of the email investigation without first coordinating with the attorney general , and it says he erred again in October when he told Congress that the agency had reopened the investigation. It concluded that Comey  s decisions were not the result of political bias , but that by departing so clearly and dramatically from FBI and department norms , the decisions negatively impacted the perception of the FBI and the department as fair administrators of justice.  story continues below In his defense , Comey says that in 2016 his team faced an extraordinary situation  something I thought of as a 500-year flood  offering no good choices and presenting some of the hardest decisions I ever had to make.  Further , when Attorney General Loretta Lynch didn  t recuse herself and said she would rely on Comey  s recommendation , he felt he should go to extraordinary lengths to be transparent , hence the announcement that Clinton would not be prosecuted and the later announcement to Congress that the case had been reopened. Before 2016 , I could never have imagined doing such a thing ,  he says. Of the IG report , he concludes , "" This is what institutions devoted to the rule of law and accountability look like. They look back at their hardest decisions and collect the facts , and are transparent with the world about those facts and decisions. "" Read the full piece. ( Read more opinion stories. )"
540,"After six years , the UN has admitted it is at least partially responsible for the cholera outbreak ravaging Haiti , the New York Times reports. The epidemic started in 2010 near a base where UN peacekeepers from Nepal had just arrived. Nepal was experiencing an outbreak of cholera at the time , and waste from the base in Haiti got into a nearby river. According to NPR , experts hired by the UN found the strain of cholera in Haiti matched the one in Nepal. And scientists agreed the base was the only realistic source of the outbreak. Regardless , the UN continued to deny any responsibility as cholera killed at least 10,000 Haitians and sickened hundreds of thousands more. The Guardian puts those numbers even higher at 30,000 and 2 million respectively. story continues below On Thursday , UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon for the first time said the UN played a role in the cholera outbreak and called for a "" significant new set of UN actions to stop it. "" His spokesperson admitted some UN "" involvement in the initial outbreak. "" This change in tack follows a confidential report from a UN adviser that stated the cholera epidemic "" would not have broken out but for the actions of the United Nations. "" Still , the UN resisted taking full responsibility for the outbreak and continued to insist it can ' t be held legally responsible. Studies show it would have cost the UN as little as $ 2,000 to screen its peacekeepers for cholera and protect Haitians , who have no immunity to cholera and were already dealing with a devastating earthquake. ( Read more Haiti stories. )"
541,"Mount St. Helens already stands out as one of the most active volcanoes in the Cascade Arc and the deadliest in the US , since its 1980 eruption claimed nearly 60 lives. It ' s also an outlier in a literal sense , sitting 30 miles west of the volcanoes that neatly line the Cascade Arc from north to south. Now scientists are reporting in the journal Nature Communications that they ' ve discovered another oddity : The volcano appears to be perched atop what Gizmodo calls "" a cool wedge of serpentine rock ""  dramatically unlike the fiery cauldrons of hot magma beneath other volcanoes. story continues below "" We don  t have a good explanation for why that  s the case , "" Steve Hansen , a geoscientist at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque , tells Gizmodo. His team drilled a couple dozen holes , filled them with explosives , and triggered minor earthquakes to watch seismic wave activity beneath Mount St. Helens , "" a bit like a CAT scan , "" Hansen says. But their findings leave them with more questions , namely : What ' s the volcano ' s heat source , if it ' s not right below the volcano itself ? Hansen surmises that it ' s coming from further east , but until his team does more research , it ' s what Science News is calling "" a cold case. "" ( Earlier this year , there were dozens of small quakes on the mountain every week. )"
542,""" This is about as serious a transportation crisis as we can imagine , "" Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed said Thursday night after a massive fire caused an elevated section of Interstate 85 to collapse. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution sees a "" traffic mess "" for Friday and the foreseeable future , with alternate routes quickly clogging in the aftermath. The interstate carries an estimated 250,000 cars a day in both directions , and there ' s no word on when it might reopen , notes the AP. Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal declared an emergency as firefighters extinguished the huge blaze , which does not appear to have caused any deaths or injuries , reports WSB-TV. The cause of the blaze is unknown , but "" the speculation I ' ve heard is that there are some PVC products that caught fire , "" Deal says. Officials say there is no indication that the blaze is connected to terrorism. story continues below The fire burned for at least an hour after starting around 6 : 30pm on the highway , which is a major north-south thoroughfare for Atlanta and the whole Southeast. Atlanta Fire Department spokesman Cortez Stafford says a crew returning from another fire spotted smoke coming from under I-85. Soon , "" there was a 40-feet or higher wall of fire. Power lines were falling and arcing heavily and falling in the street , "" he tells CNN. Firefighters managed to shut the highway down and got out of the way just before a bridge section up to 100 feet long collapsed. Transportation authorities were scrambling to put together alternate routes for drivers , while encouraging them to carpool and take mass transit. ( Read more Atlanta stories. )"
543,"Ammon Bundy insists his Citizens for Constitutional Freedom is standing up for the little guy  the ranchers he thinks really own the Oregon sanctuary his group is occupying. But the Northern Paiute tribe , which the Washington Post says has hunted and fished on the land now inhabited by the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge for more than 1,300 years , is underwhelmed by the protesters. "" We as Harney County residents don ' t need some clown to come in here and stand up for us , "" tribal councilman Jarvis Kennedy said Wednesday , per KTVB. "" Don ' t tell me any of these ranchers came across the Bering Strait and settled here , "" tribal chairwoman Charlotte Rodrique added. "" We were here first. "" The refuge isn ' t technically part of the nearby Burns Paiute reservation , where the tribe was relegated to in 1868 , the Post notes  but the Paiute say it ' s sacred ancestral land to which the refuge gives it access. story continues below The Paiute also work with the Bureau of Land Management to preserve archaeological sites , and they ' re afraid Bundy and Co. will damage those , the Oregonian notes. Rodrique calls out the hypocrisy of the occupiers ' beef with the government , noting to KTVB that most area ranchers regularly dip into federal money when it comes to drought and grazing subsidies and other funds to sustain their livelihoods. Law enforcement has so far been tiptoeing around the occupiers , which angers Kennedy. "" I wonder if it was [ a ] bunch of natives that went out there and overtook that , or any federal land , "" he said , per the Oregonian. "" Would they let us come into town and get supplies and re-up ? "" And he didn ' t mince words about what he thinks the occupiers should do next : "" They just need to get the hell out of here. "" ( Read a brief history of the Paiute in Oregon in the Washington Post. )"
544,"Tsunami warnings were issued for Mexico and several Central American nations after a massive earthquake off Mexico ' s southern coast just before midnight Thursday. The US Geological Survey says the 8.1 magnitude quake had an epicenter 102 miles west of Tapachula in southern Chiapas state , the AP reports. A tsunami warning was issued for Mexico , Guatemala , El Salvador , Costa Rica , Nicaragua , Panama , and Honduras , but not for the US West Coast , reports the BBC. The US Tsunami Warning System said tsunami waves were possible within three hours. story continues below In Mexico ' s Chiapas state , the governor said the quake killed at least three people and destroyed buildings , including schools and hospitals. The quake was felt hundreds of miles away in Mexico City , where buildings swayed and people ran out into the streets. Authorities say it ' s the strongest quake to hit the city since a devastating quake killed thousands in 1985 , though there were no immediate reports of major damage , reports Reuters. In Guatemala , which is much closer to the epicenter than the Mexican capital , authorities say the quake caused damage and at least one death. Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales spoke on television to call for calm. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
545,"Thousands of people fled new , rapidly moving wildfires in northern California on Monday that have scorched almost 10,000 acres. Nearly all of northern California is under a red flag warning by the National Weather Service , with a heat wave and gusty winds compounding the difficulties faced by firefighters. A Cal Fire spokesman said the fires are moving at "" a dangerous rate of spread , "" per USA Today. In less than five hours , the Zogg Fire roared through 7,000 acres near Redding. In Napa Valley , the Glass Fire took 2,500 acres of wine country , including the Chateau Boswell winery. "" It ' s a cremation , "" said a man whose family raises grapes in St. Helena , per CNN. Flames jumped the Silverado Trail and the Lodi River , destroying structures and vineyards. A hospital had to be evacuated. story continues below Pushed by 70mph winds , the North Complex fire was closing in Paradise , a town that endured the worst wildfire in state history two years ago. An evacuation warning has been issued for Paradise , per the Los Angeles Times. Electricity was being shut off in 16 counties. In Southern California , the Bobcat Fire , which has been burning since Sept. 6 , is still only 62 % contained , reports Fox News. More than 114,000 acres of the Angeles National Forest have burned , and the Los Angeles area remains under a cloud of smoke. California has had at least 8,100 wildfires this year , which have burned more than 3.7 million acres. Since Aug. 15 , 26 people have been killed. One person who had to evacuate three weeks ago in northern California and again this weekend said : "" It gets tiring , it ' s becoming a lifestyle. "" ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
546,"An idea conceived by an Ottoman sultan 150 years ago is finally coming to life : Turkey this week opened the first sea tunnel connecting two continents. The 8.5-mile-long tunnel connects the Asian and European sides of Istanbul , with 4,593 feet of it running under the Bosporus , the strait that connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmara and cleaves the city in two. Turkish officials say that at more than 60 yards deep , it is the deepest submerged railway tunnel of its type in the world , and Al Jazeera reports it was built to weather a 9.0-magnitude earthquake. And with the ability to handle 1.5 million daily travelers , the Independent reports that it ' s expected to do wonders for the notoriously traffic-ridden city. story continues below But not all of Turkey ' s people think it ' s a project worth celebrating. Many have argued the "" lavish "" project , OKed by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan , then mayor of Istanbul , is unnecessary. And then there were the delays , and Erdogan ' s reaction to them : The project began in 2005 ; a scheduled 2009 completion date came and went , in part due to important archaeological finds , including a 4th-century Byzantine port , reports the AP. This was Ergodan ' s rather unwelcome reaction to the discovery : "" First [ they said ] there was archaeological stuff , then it was clay pots , then this , then that. Is any of this stuff more important than people ? "" ( Israel uncovered a tunnel of a very different nature this month. )"
547,"An avalanche buried a mountain hotel in an earthquake-hit region of central Italy Wednesday evening , leaving at least 30 people missing , authorities say. The civil protection agency said that it was working to get rescue vehicles to the Hotel Rigopiano through roads covered in snow , joining initial rescue efforts overnight by alpine rescue teams , the AP reports. "" There are many deaths , "" the head of a rescue team said , per the BBC. About 12 hours after the avalanche , only two survivors had been rescued , one of them a guest at the hotel who was outside at the time , reports Reuters. "" I am alive because I went to get something from my car , "" Giampiero Parete explained. story continues below Italian media also was reporting that people trapped in the hotel texted emergency numbers pleading for assistance. "" Help , we ' re dying of cold , "" one couple reportedly said. But a rescue-team member says though rescuers have called out , they ' ve gotten no answer. Earthquakes hit the region on Wednesday , including one with a 5.7 magnitude , but it wasn ' t immediately clear if the temblors triggered the avalanche at the three-story hotel in the Abruzzo region. Mountain rescue teams reached the hotel by skis around 4am , according to reports in the Italian media. Video footage showed rescuers with shovels digging through a wall of snow , and at least one man being led through the cleared path. ( Read more avalanche stories. )"
548,"If you ' re a Californian living in fear of the inevitable next "" Big One "" to hit the San Francisco Bay Area , well , we ' re not sure if you ' ll find this comforting or not : A new study from USGS scientists finds that the next "" Big One "" is more likely to be a cluster of pretty big earthquakes , as opposed to one really big earthquake , the San Jose Mercury News reports. "" Everybody is still thinking about a repeat of the 1906 quake , "" says the geologist who co-authored the study , referring to the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that hit the city that year. "" But what happens if every five years we get a magnitude 6.8 or 7.2 ? That ' s not outside the realm of possibility. "" story continues below The scientists found that , between 1690 and 1776 , at least six earthquakes ranging in magnitude from 6.3 to 7.7 shook the Bay Area. Those quakes , taken together , released about as much stress on the area ' s major faults as did the 1906 quake , Phys.org explains. We ' ve gotten "" through the next 110 years in relative quiet ""  in fact , abnormally so , says the co-author ; but that stress has been re-accumulating all the while , and something ' s gotta give. And , while the accumulated energy could be released in "" the Big One , "" researchers say a cluster is more likely because of all the faults in the region. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
549,"Sorry , Lena Horne , but stormy weather may be just what California ' s been looking for. The Golden State has been getting bombarded with precipitation  rain , snow , hail , sleet  making even Los Angeles feel "" more like London than Southern California , "" the Los Angeles Times notes. But for a parched state that ' s been plagued by a drought lasting more than five years , this wet weather is not only good for 2017  it could bring an official end to the drought altogether. The Weather Network reports a "" great improvement , "" particularly in California ' s northern third , and the first third of January has been "" exceptional "" for rainfall and snow accumulation. About 42 % of California is now drought free , the AP reports ( a more specific breakdown can be found at the US Drought Monitor ) . The prospect of an end to the drought is "" kind of a nice thing to think about , "" a state climatologist tells the Times. story continues below But Mother Nature still has a lot of work to do. The unpredictable weather patterns that often come with La Nia conditions , expected to last throughout the winter , mean there ' s no guarantee the storms will keep raining their soggy gifts down. And semantics could complicate a declaration of "" this is the end , "" as there ' s no set parameter to gauge if a drought has indeed come to a close ( it would officially be deemed over if Gov. Jerry Brown pulls or changes a January 2014 emergency drought order he issued , per the Mercury News ) . Still , there ' s reason to be hopeful : Last week alone , the storms dumped more than 350 billion gallons of water into the state ' s thirsty reservoirs , boosting water levels to long-forgotten marks. "" It ' s early. We ' ll see where we are in March or April , "" a Natural Resources Agency rep says. ( The drought has affected the state ' s trees. )"
550,"Social media stories don ' t get much more disturbing than this : Police say a 17-year-old Instagram personality in upstate New York was murdered by a man she met through the service , who then shared grisly photos of her body online. Police say they were trying to track down 21-year-old Brandon Clark in Utica around 7am Sunday morning when he called 911 himself and "" made incriminating statements , "" the New York Times reports. As officers approached his vehicle , he stabbed himself in the neck , lay down on a green tarp , and began taking selfies and posting them on Snapchat. Under the tarp , officers found the body of Bianca Devins. Her throat had been slit. Clark was hospitalized in critical condition but is expected to survive. He was charged with second-degree murder Monday night. story continues below Police say Clark and Bianca met on Instagram around two months ago , and their relationship later became a "" personally intimate one , "" the AP reports. Investigators believe he stabbed her after they attended a concert in New York City on Saturday night and he drove her back to Utica. Mashable reports that after Clark shared photos of Devins ' corpse on the chat platform Discord and ghoulish Instagram users spread them widely , her followers tried to "" drown them out "" by posting floods of positive image with tags including #escty  her username  and #ripbianca. "" Let ' s remember Bianca as the beautiful girl she was , "" one user wrote. "" She was murdered in cold blood by a boy I will not name and the pictures he took of her after the fact are being circulated by basement-dwelling edgelords using her horrible demise as a joke. It ' s disgusting. "" Instagram said it was "" taking every measure "" to remove the gory photos. ( Read more Instagram stories. )"
551,"Four boys and their coach remain trapped in a flooded cave in Thailand , after divers rescued eight boys Sunday and Monday. The four boys rescued most recently have all been hospitalized and all are safe , the head of the rescue mission announced Monday ; they are quarantined due to a concern about infection , CNN reports. But as for when the same can be said of the last four and their coach , it depends on the weather , Reuters reports. Rescuers need more than 20 hours to get ready for the next operation , but beyond that , "" it is up to the environment , "" the rescue mission head says. "" If the rain god helps us , then we may be able to work fast. But if the rain god doesn  t help , then it could be challenging. "" story continues below It has been intermittently raining heavily in the area over the past three days , and still more heavy rain is in the forecast this week ; all of that can hamper efforts to drain water from the cave ' s tunnels. As for whether all five remaining people might be rescued at once , the rescue mission chief wasn ' t sure. "" It depends on the plan , "" he said. "" We have set the plan for four people so if they want to take five out [ simultaneously ] , then they need to change the plan. "" Divers hold the boys , some of whom aren ' t strong swimmers , close during the rescues ; the children wear oxygen masks so they can breathe normally. Witnesses say the boys that have been brought out of the cave so far have been seen wearing full face masks and several wetsuits to keep them warm. ( Read more Thailand stories. )"
552,"If you ' re willing to let a bee sting every part of your body in the name of science , you may have what it takes to win an Ig Nobel Prize. The annual awards ceremony for "" improbable research "" was held last night , the BBC reports , and a Cornell University researcher whose study involved hundreds of stings was among the winners. Michael Smith , who determined that the shaft of the penis , the nostril , and the upper lip are the worst places to be stung , shared the award with entomologist Justin Schmidt , who has been stung by scores of species and says the bullet ant delivers "" pure , intense , brilliant pain , like fire-walking over flaming charcoal with a three-inch rusty nail grinding into your heel , "" the Guardian reports. Among the other Ig Nobel winners : Austrian researchers determined that Moroccan Emperor Moulay Ismael could indeed have sired 888 kids if he had sex every day during his 30-year reign. He had a harem of 500 women , but the researchers determined he would have only needed 65 , the AP reports. story continues below A trio of Dutch researchers determined that "" Huh ? "" is used in almost every human language. Chilean and US researchers attached sticks to chickens and found the fake tails made them walk like dinosaurs , according to Ig Nobel-winning paper "" Walking Like Dinosaurs : Chickens With Artificial Tails Provide Clues about Non-Avian Theropod Locomotion. "" The management award was won by researchers who found that business leaders who witnessed natural disasters like earthquakes or floods when they were children were more likely to take risks  but only if they were not at significant risk of harm during the incident. All mammals over 6 pounds or so  from sheep to people to humans  empty their bladders in around 21 seconds , according to the Ig Nobel-winning "" universal urination theory. "" The lead researcher tells the BBC that the finding means smaller rodents like rats , which pee in under a second , are probably a poor choice for medical research into urination. Un-boiling an egg may sound like one of the silliest projects of the lot , but the "" vortex fluid machine "" used by the winning American and Australian researchers has the potential to transform everything from cancer treatments to cheese-making , the Guardian notes ."
553,"For a limited time , you can feast your eyes on "" Spanish Stonehenge ""  which has been unseen in full in more than 50 years. The ancient monument officially known as the Dolmen of Guadalperal  a circle of 150 stones up to 6 feet tall on Spain ' s Peraleda de la Mata coast  was excavated in the 1920s but submerged in 1963 when Spain flooded the region to build the Valdecanas Reservoir. Portions of the monument , apparently built to showcase the summer solstice on the shores of the Tagus River up to 7,000 years ago , have pierced the water ' s surface under dry conditions in the years since , reports Live Science. But now , owing to a months-long drought , the stones are fully exposed , as shown in images captured by NASA ' s Landsat 8 satellite in July. story continues below "" It ' s spectacular because you can appreciate the entire complex for the first time in decades , "" Angel Castao , the president of the local cultural association , tells Atlas Obscura. "" All my life , people had told me about the dolmen "" so "" when we saw it  it felt like we had discovered a megalithic monument ourselves. "" The dolmen long ago lost its top , which would ' ve ensured a dark inner chamber where death rituals likely took place. But more stones have fallen and some others have cracked since the monument was last seen. Castao is one of 43,000 people urging the Spanish government to move the monument , believed to be thousands of years older than England ' s Stonehenge , while it has the chance. ( Read more Spain stories. )"
554,"Thousands of California ' s famed giant sequoias are doomed in the wake of devastating wildfires that have swept the Sierra Nevada. Per ABC News , upwards of 10,000 of the trees , which can reach 275 feet and live for 3,000 years or more , must be culled for safety reasons. The trees line Generals Highway -- which cuts through Sequoia National Park , Giant Sequoia National Monument , and Kings Canyon National Park -- and have been weakened not only by the fires but by drought and disease. Per an NPS press release , the "" hazard trees "" have a high probability to fail and the potential to strike people , cars , other structures , or create barriers to emergency response services. story continues below In worse news for the rare giants , the release goes on to say that count does not include hazard trees in the backcountry , where mitigation planning is ongoing. As The Hill notes , the Kings Canyon National Parks Complex fire , which started Sept. 10 , has left the highway closed for weeks. The NPS estimates the fire is 60 percent contained , having now burned 138 square miles. Earlier this month , officials revealed that "" hundreds "" of sequoias had been killed by the blaze , which was started by lightning on Sept. 9 has burned into 15 giant sequoia groves in the park. Multiple burned trees fell in Giant Forest  which is home to about 2,000 sequoias , including the General Sherman Tree , considered the world ' s largest by volume. ( Read more giant sequoias stories. )"
555,"Days after a drone forced firefighting aircraft out of the sky over a raging wildfire in Arizona , the drone ' s pilot is facing charges , the AP reports. The Yavapai County Sheriff ' s Office arrested Gene Alan Carpenter Friday on 14 counts of felony endangerment and one misdemeanor count of unlawful operation of an unmanned aircraft. In a press release , the office said the 54-year-old Prescott Valley native endangered 14 aircraft and fire crews "" with a substantial risk of imminent death or physical injury by flying an unmanned drone aircraft in closed airspace above an active fire area. "" The Goodwin fire has burned more than 25,000 acres of the Prescott National Forest since last Saturday. More than 1,200 firefighters have been involved in quelling the blaze. story continues below The drone was spotted flying near the fire Wednesday around 7pm by an air attack pilot , reports the Arizona Republic. When the drone began circling the plane , officials grounded all the aircraft in the area , including five helicopters , three large air tankers , and five heavy air tankers. Because they lacked air cover , ground crews fire were called back as well. Numerous witnesses say they saw Carpenter operating a drone in the area throughout the week , and officials arrested him Friday after finding drone views of the fire on his website. Carpenter ' s bond was set at $ 25,000. Arizona passed a law last year making it illegal for drones to impede emergency or law-enforcement activities. ( In Washington state , a man received a jail sentence after his drone crashed. )"
556,"A fire smoldering deep in the wreckage of the collapsed condo building in Florida is creating air-quality issues for rescue crews. Smoke has become the biggest hinderance in finding the source of the fire , Miami-Dade Mayor Daniella Levine Cava said Saturday , adding that the crews working in the rubble of Champlain Towers South in Surfside were at "" extreme risk. "" The air-quality threat to crews could be lasting , a University of Miami expert said. "" There is no doubt that they are being exposed to pollutants and particulate matter that can lead to burns , short-term , and long-term lung injury , "" she said. Infrared technology is being used by crews , WTVJ reports. "" We are facing incredible difficulties with this fire , "" Levine Cava said. Rescuers have made a trench to isolate the blaze while they look for victims , she said , per CNN. Another factor is a smell much like sulfur , per the AP. "" The stench is very thick ,  Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis said. story continues below Surfside ' s mayor said he ' s recommending residents of the north tower nearby evacuate until its structural integrity can be assessed. "" It was built at the same time with the same designer , "" DeSantis said , per the Miami Herald. FEMA has agreed to pay for temporary housing for those residents , Mayor Charles Burkett said. Evacuation won ' t be ordered , Burkett said , but he added that if he lived there , "" I ' d be gone. "" The city also is looking into the situation with Champlain Towers East , though that building appears to have been built at a different time and isn ' t in the same style. About 20 of the people missing since the collapse Thursday are Israelis , and Israel said Saturday it ' s sending engineering and rescue specialists to Surfside to help. No more victims had been found so far Saturday , Levine Cava said. ( Read more building collapse stories. )"
557,"A man who came in contact with pigeons but didn ' t much like them has died in an unexpected way  from a pigeon allergy. Peter Willoughby of Hampshire County , England , cleaned bird droppings at a Ford factory for 25 years and let a friend store pigeons in his garden , the Daily Echo reports. But Willoughby ' s family struggled to connect the dots between his bird contact and fatal illness , which killed him last summer at age 72. "" He wasn  t into pigeons , "" says his wife , Teresa. "" He didn  t mind watching them from a distance. If he did go anywhere near them he put a mask on. "" Yet an inquest found that the bird allergy ( or "" pigeon fancier ' s lung "" ) had scarred his lungs and triggered pneumonia. Experts said that his job at Ford was to clean windscreens heavily coated with pigeon droppings. story continues below And at home , "" he was also exposed to feathers and excreta when he was close to the pigeon loft , "" says the senior coroner. "" I think it was a combination of those two factors. "" The family found it "" heart-wrenching to see somebody so independent go downhill like that , "" says Teresa , adding that the roughly year-long illness "" must have been hell for him but he never complained. "" The pigeon allergy afflicts up to 22 % of the world ' s pigeon fanciers with a range of symptoms from exhaustion to weight loss , but isn ' t usually fatal , according to British Pigeon Fanciers Medical Research. Pigeons are threatened by disease , too : Hundreds of the birds are dying in the San Francisco Bay Area , possibly from illness related to drought , CBS San Francisco reports. ( In fact , thousands of dead birds are washing up on the West Coast. )"
558,/ ' Right Now We Need to Grieve ' in Sonoma County At least 10 dead as fires rage in wine country
559,"More bloodshed could be on the way in Ukraine , where security forces have surrounded the pro-Russia stronghold of Slovyansk and cut off the main road into the city. Ukraine ' s Interior Ministry says that four troops have been killed in the city , where pro-Russia militants shot down two military helicopters last week , the BBC finds. Gun battles are taking place outside the city ; Russia ' s Interfax news agency is reporting that at least 20 pro-Russian militants have been killed. Ukrainian troops have also reportedly taken a nearby television tower , according to Voice of America. More : In Odessa , where a blaze killed 42 pro-Russia activists Friday , militants stormed a police station yesterday to free nearly 70 activists , Reuters reports. The militants chanted "" Russia "" and "" We will not forgive "" as they smashed their way into the police compound. story continues below Ukraine ' s Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk says the unrest in Odessa is all part of Moscow ' s plan to destroy the country. "" Russia ' s aim was to repeat in Odessa what is happening in the east of the country , "" he says. As in other cities where pro-Russia militants are strong , there appears to be plenty of support for activists among the police in Odessa , the Guardian finds. Witnesses say the police offered no resistance as militants attacked the station. Yatsenyuk says the region ' s police chief has been dismissed. Unlike in eastern cities however , Odessa has plenty of pro-Kiev activists willing to battle pro-Russia activists in the streets , reports the New York Times , which notes that the city lies between the Crimean peninsula and the pro-Russian Moldovan region of Transnistria  and Russian President Vladimir Putin has taken to referring to the entire area by its historical name of Novorossiya , or New Russia. ( Read more Slovyansk stories. )"
560,"When Bill and Melinda Gates ' divorce is finalized , she won ' t be getting any spousal support. People obtained a copy of Melinda Gates ' divorce petition , which specifies that "" spousal support is not needed "" and she won ' t be seeking it. It also reveals that while the couple does not have a prenuptial agreement , they do have a separation agreement that will dictate how their assets are divided. Their date of separation is not clear. They ' re scheduled to appear in court in April of next year. Melinda Gates also on Monday filed an order restricting her and Bill from disposing of property or changing anything on their insurance policies unless both agree or a court orders it. story continues below Reuters reports that the Gates ' divorce is "" shaking the philanthropic world "" while Vox called it "" an earthquake moment in the nonprofit sector "" ; they are , of course , the co-founders of the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation , one of the largest private charitable organizations. The foundation says in a statement that Bill and Melinda "" will continue to work together to shape and approve foundation strategies , advocate for the foundation  s issues , and set the organization  s overall direction , "" with no changes to their roles as co-chairs and trustees of the organization. A spokesperson says the foundation does not anticipate any changes to its work. Melinda Gates , who has a separate company focused on social progress and equality called Pivotal Ventures , has increasingly been using her maiden name , going by Melinda French Gates on her websites and social media. ( More on the divorce here. )"
561,"North Dakota officials are hoping to use federal coronavirus funds for fracking grants  a move that has critics up in arms , the Grand Forks Herald reports. A state energy commission voted unanimously Friday to reallocate over $ 221 million in congressional virus aid to state agencies , including $ 16 million for fracking. The goal , per Department of Mineral Resources Director Lynn Helms , is to generate jobs while plugging and reclaiming wells that might leak or allow emissions to escape : Oil companies "" had been talking about how slow work was and how bad it was going to get during the coming winter months , "" he tells the Bismarck Tribune. "" They were really excited by this. That ' s what this really is , to generate these jobs for the next couple months. "" story continues below But critics are calling it "" corporate welfare "" and "" insider spending. "" In the words of Scott Skokos , head of the Dakota Resource Council , "" We should not be doing direct bailouts to the oil industry , and this is a direct bailout. "" State Sen. Tim Mathern , a Democrat , said that "" this money is supposed to help North Dakotans recover from the pandemic and support working families , not serve as another handout to an industry that is already at full workforce. "" The reallocation is part of $ 66 million in virus aid already designated for well sites by the state. The all-Republican commission is aiming to spend it before a Dec. 30 deadline on using $ 1.25 billion allotted by Congress. The EPA and Greenpeace have raised alarm bells about fracking , saying it can contaminate drinking water. ( Others have linked it to earthquakes. )"
562,"The commander of Iran ' s ground forces is lobbing a pretty big accusation : Brig. Gen. Ahmad Reza Pourdastan says conflicts in Iraq and Syria can be traced back to when the United States planned and executed the 9/11 attacks , the Independent reports. "" These wars and these threats stem from a comprehensive American strategy. After the fall of the Soviet Union , the Americans felt that a new force was beginning to materialize , namely the union between Sunnis and Shiites , "" Pourdastan tells state-owned al-Alam , translated by the Middle East Media Research Institute. "" In order to prevent this force from materializing , the Americans did many things , "" he continued. "" The first thing they did was to plan and carry out the events of 9/11 , in order to justify their presence in Western Asia , with the goal of ruling it. "" story continues below Turning to the conflict in Yemen , Pourdastan said that the Shiite Houthis , supported by Iran , could turn their sights outside of Yemen and deal "" lethal blows to Saudi Arabia , "" per the Blaze. "" I feel that if Saudi cities were targeted by bombings and missiles , it would be difficult for the officials there to withstand this. "" He added a warning to Sunni fighters of the Islamic State : If they come within 25 miles of Iran , "" We shall confront them and make them witness the might and capabilities of the Muslim soldiers , "" he said. The comments come at a bad time for those hoping to secure a nuclear deal with Iran. The Senate is set to debate compromise legislation which would give Congress the potential to reject a deal , Politico reports , and Republicans are already pressing for amendments that could jeopardize talks. ( Read more Iran stories. )"
563,"Louisiana declared a state of emergency Wednesday as a severe storm swamped New Orleans and a possible hurricane was on its way. NOLA.com ' s headline for its photo story : "" New Orleans underwater. "" In a separate piece , NOLA.com reports the Mississippi River is expected to rise to the top of the lowest of the levees that protect New Orleans. The storm is associated with what the AP calls "" a broad area of disturbed weather in the Gulf "" that was expected to become a tropical storm by Thursday and a hurricane , expected to be named Hurricane Barry , by Friday. The storm was expected to make landfall in Louisiana Saturday with winds of up to 85mph. Though it is only predicted to be a Category 1 hurricane , the storm surge and large amount of rainfall could create big problems. The Mississippi River is already at 16 feet thanks to a historic spring flood season  just one foot below what is considered flood stage. story continues below Some levee segments are as low as 18 feet , and forecasters are now predicting a surge of 3 to 5 feet from Barry , meaning the Mississippi River could rise to between 19 and 22 feet by Saturday. There could be "" overtopping at some of those locations , something that has never happened in the city ' s modern history , "" per NOLA.com. The highest level recorded since the 1920s is 21.3 feet. New Orleans ' mayor also declared a flash flood emergency Wednesday as streets flooded  some people were paddling down them in kayaks  and said one neighborhood had gotten 8.4 inches of rain in three hours , per the AP. The Washington Post reports some areas of the city got 10 inches of rain  and says Wednesday ' s flooding could be a preview of worse to come over the weekend. The entire coast of Louisiana , plus Mississippi and Texas , is at risk of torrential rains thanks to the storm. ( Scientists are predicting "" a floodier future. "" )"
564,""" Take this storm seriously ! This is a LIFE &amp; DEATH situation. "" That was the warning from National Weather Service  as quoted by CNN  ahead of what could be another "" bomb cyclone "" to hit the East Coast. The last bomb cyclone  which occurs when the atmospheric pressures drops at least 24 millibars in 24 hours  wreaked havoc on the Atlantic coast in January. This new storm  dubbed Winter Storm Riley by the Weather Channel  is forecast to be the worst since then and could hit a 900-mile stretch from northern Georgia to southern Maine on Friday and Saturday , USA Today reports. With pressure expected to drop steeply Friday evening , another bomb cyclone is a distinct possibility. story continues below Experts are warning of flooding , strong winds , and heavy rain. With tides already high due to the full moon , storm surges of up to 4 feet and waves as high as 8 feet are possible. Eastern Massachusetts and southern Maine are expected to get the worst of the flooding , and Boston Harbor may see its highest peak tide levels in at least 58 years. The Massachusetts governor has activated 200 National Guard members , and coastal communities are being warned of potential evacuations. The National Weather Service is also warning of hurricane-force winds for most of Massachusetts. Meanwhile , up to 5 inches of rain is predicted for some areas , and blizzard conditions are possible in parts of Pennsylvania. Power outages and flight delays are likely. And a second major storm could hit in the middle of next week. Is it summer yet ? ( Read more winter storm stories. )"
565,"What news for a nation blighted by poverty , disease , and a devastating earthquake : Haiti is home to lucrative gold mines. And copper and silver ones too. Potentially worth $ 20 billion , the precious metal finds are already creating hundreds of jobs and new roads , the AP reports. What ' s more , mining by US and Canadian firms should leave Haitians with about half the profits  an unusually high amount. But history shows there are pitfalls aplenty for Haitii to avoid. story continues below Open pit mines  the world ' s most common type  usually last for about 25 years , but leave decimated mountaintops , displaced communities , and environmental contamination. Haiti in particular is known for its corrupt government , and officials who would regulate the mines don ' t yet exist. On the positive side , people like stone cutter Joseph Bernard , 47 , are getting a paycheck and feeding their family. "" I found a job , but many didn ' t , "" he says. "" If more companies come , more people will work. "" ( Read more Haiti stories. )"
566,"A process is underway to move 2.6 million people from isolation to shelters in India and Bangladesh with a super-cyclone making landfall. Amphan , the first super-cyclone in the Bay of Bengal since 1999 , has already claimed one life as it plowed into the India-Bangladesh border on Wednesday morning. A Bangladesh Red Crescent volunteer was helping with evacuations Wednesday when his boat capsized in strong winds , per the BBC. Officials fear the storm could be more deadly than Cyclone Sidr , which killed 3,500 people in 2007. Some areas are seeing wind gusts of 120mph. Severe flooding is expected , while a storm surge could push water 15 miles inland , reports the AP. India ' s weather department predicts storm surges could reach 16 feet high. Some 2.2 million people are being evacuated in Bangladesh , almost 300,000 in India ' s West Bengal state , and 148,486 in Odisha state. story continues below An Odisha disaster management official said more shelters than usual were needed to allow people to keep distance , but some 242 of 800 centers typically used during floods or cyclones are already being used as coronavirus quarantine centers. Schools are reportedly being stocked with masks and hand sanitizer as a result. Still , some are wary of leaving their homes. "" They  are afraid of going into a crowd where they could get infected , "" a fisherman in the seaside town of Digha , West Bengal , tells the AP. Amphan made landfall around the India-Bangladesh border Wednesday , about 2 : 30pm local time , per the Guardian. The storm is expected to move toward the West Bengal capital of Kolkata , home to 15 million people and 1,500 cases of COVID-19 , where flooding is expected. It ' s forecast to move into Bangladesh on Thursday , and then into Bhutan. ( Read more cyclone stories. )"
567,"Researchers have been warning about an imminent "" tipping point "" in the Amazon rainforest for a while now , and a new study suggests the moment has arrived for swaths of the region. The study in Nature finds that parts of the rainforest are now emitting more carbon dioxide than they absorb , per a release at Phys.org. The rainforest has long served as a buffer against environmental trouble because of its role as a "" carbon sink ""  its ability to absorb the greenhouse gas from the atmosphere. But the study suggests the dynamic has flipped in certain parts of the Brazilian Amazon , particularly the southeast. CNN has the numbers : Four regions emit 410 million metric tons of carbon dioxide a year , mostly because of deforestation and fires. The regions also absorb 120 million metric tons of the gas , but that leaves net emissions at 290 million metric tons. story continues below "" The overall pattern of deforestation , warmer and drier dry seasons , drought stress , fire , and carbon release in eastern Amazonia seriously threatens the Amazon carbon sink , "" writes Colorado State ' s Scott Denning in an accompanying article in Nature. Researchers figured all this out by monitoring carbon dioxide levels taken by planes in roughly 600 flights from 2010 to 2018 over the four sites studied , per the New York Times. The latter newspaper talks to an Amazon expert unaffiliated with the study who praises its thoroughness and adds that reforestation can help restore the region ' s status as a carbon sink. I don  t think you  ll ever get it back to what it was , but you can certainly improve it , "" says Thomas Lovejoy of George Mason University. ( Not helping : Illegally cleared Amazon lots were being sold on Facebook. )"
568,"As California enters its fourth year of drought , with fines that the Los Angeles Times reports could range up to $ 10,000 for water wasting , citizens are taking to social media to not only rat on their neighbors but call out the state ' s wealthiest , some of whose magnificently manicured lawns are still green while everyone else looks at various shades of brown. Targets include Kim Kardashian and Kanye West , whose lush lawns stand out from above ; Beverly Hills residents , who keep filling their pools ; Walmart , which gets its bottled water from the state and profits from it ; and hotels accused of "" water misting "" their guests , reports the Guardian. story continues below Whether #droughtshaming will actually effect change remains to be seen , but when the city of Montecito made its water usage data public , exposing people like Oprah Winfrey for wasting , overall water usage dropped 48 % , reports Gizmodo. And when the hashtag first took off last summer , eco-minded vigilantes took to the streets , helping municipalities issue fines and even posting pictures and videos with people ' s street addresses. "" The class differences are very real , "" an environmental historian tells the Guardian. "" The correlation with wealthier people here is very simple : They have bigger yards. "" ( Tree ring analyses suggest this drought is the worst in California in 1,200 years. )"
569,"A convoluted story out of New Jersey , where police have charged Paul Caneiro with aggravated arson in connection with a fire at his own home  one that the Asbury Park Press reports occurred seven hours before a fatal fire at his brother ' s mansion. Around 5am Tuesday , firefighters responded to Paul Caneiro ' s Ocean Township home and put out flames on the roof. Around 12 : 30pm , fire broke out at brother Keith Caneiro ' s home 12 miles away in Colts Neck , where police say a quadruple homicide occurred : Keith Caneiro , 50  found on the front lawn with a gunshot wound that didn ' t appear to be self-inflicted , per NJ.com  died along with his wife , 45-year-old Jennifer Caneiro , and their son and daughter , who were found inside , a law enforcement source tells the Asbury Park Press. The New York Times describes both children as under the age of 10. story continues below The brothers appear to have been close. Born in Brooklyn , they shared a Staten Island address for more than a decade before moving to New Jersey with their wives , per NJ.com. They would take up separate abodes : Paul in a single-family home on Tilton Drive in suburban Ocean Township , Keith in a $ 1.5 million mansion in upscale Colts Neck , home to celebrities like Bruce Springsteen. But Paul would still work for Keith  owner of EcoStar Pest Management and apparent web development company Square One  who also served as his best man. "" They ' re wonderful people , "" says a neighbor of Paul , who saw family members Tuesday outside the house believed to have suffered damage to its back and attic , per the Times. "" It ' s pretty shocking stuff. "" An earlier version of this story erroneously reported Paul Caneiro as being charged in the Colts Neck fire. ( More on the case here. )"
570,"A tight Texas community grieved last night during a vigil for five children who perished in a house fire yesterday morning. Officials confirmed to ABC-13 that they found a trailer home blazing around 5am in Edna , located about 90 minutes outside of Houston , with a 32-year-old mother and 30-year-old father outside the trailer. According to USA Today , dad Johnny Hernandez Jr. managed to pull out Annabel Ortiz  her relatives say she suffered a severe cut trying to save the kids , while Hernandez wasn ' t injured  and their 4-year-old son , Johnny Hernandez III. But Noah Ortiz , 15 ; Julian Ortiz , 13 ; Nicholas Ortiz , 9 ; Arianna ( spelled Ariana in some media ) Hernandez , 6 ; and Lilianna ( Liliana ) Hernandez , 5 , all died in the fire , devastating the town of about 5,700. story continues below While the cause hasn ' t yet been determined , firefighters believe it started in the kitchen. A family friend tells KHOU that the family had "" some electrical issues "" several months ago "" with their breaker box and stuff. "" Witnesses tell the station that Noah , a varsity football player , may have headed back into the flames to try to save the younger children. A GoFundMe page has already raised more than $ 17,000 for the family ; more than 100 people attended last night ' s candlelight vigil to remember the victims. "" Us being a small community that we are , it has just devastated everybody , "" one resident tells ABC-13 , while another adds , "" I can ' t imagine. To me , no parent should bury their children. "" ( These teens cut class  and saved an elderly woman from a house fire. )"
571,"Paul Caneiro ' s wife and two daughters were inside the home that he stands charged with setting ablaze , and they are set to testify on his behalf when he returns to court on Wednesday , his lawyer , Robert Honecker , tells ABC News. Wife Susan and daughters Marissa and Katelyn escaped the house in Ocean Township , NJ , safely and "" fully support him. "" Earlier , Honecker took it a step farther , telling the Patch that , "" In the criminal complaint , his family is listed as the intended victims. But they firmly believe that he actually saved them. He was the one who woke them up and get them out of the house "" when fire broke out around 5am. Thus far , Caneiro has been charged only with aggravated arson at his own home ; no charges have been filed in the blaze that broke out at his brother ' s nearby mansion , nor in the quadruple homicide of Keith Caneiro , wife Jennifer , and their two young children. ( Read more arson stories. )"
572,"The mysteries of the Shroud of Turin are proving to be very stubborn in the face of modern technology. An Italian team analyzed DNA from the relic some believe is the burial cloth of Jesus but failed to find conclusive proof of its origins , the Independent reports. The testing revealed traces of people and pollen from many parts of the world , meaning it that could be a medieval forgery  or that its journey to Europe could indeed have begun in Jerusalem around 30 or 33AD. The results show that over the centuries , the shroud came in contact with many "" different types of natural and anthropological environments , "" according to the researchers , whose study is published in the journal Nature. story continues below One find that will surprise skeptics : One of the most common snippets of mitochondrial DNA was from the Middle East. The type is "" rare in western Europe , and it is typical of the Druze community , an ethnic group that has some origin in Egypt and that lives mainly in restricted areas between Syria , Jordan , Lebanon , Israel , and Palestine , "" lead researcher Gianni Barcaccia tells LiveScience , which notes that other experts consider some of the methods used unreliable. Another find : Barcaccia says some of the oldest DNA on the cloth was from India , meaning the shroud may have been made there. ( An earlier study suggested the shroud is real  and was created by a huge earthquake. )"
573,"With a devastating earthquake in Burma following on the heels of the one in Japan , which itself followed one in New Zealand , Slate ' s Explainer blog digs into the question of just which nations are safest from natural disaster. Your winners , based on data from a Belgium center that analyzes such things : Estonia , Qatar , Bahrain ( note this is natural disaster , not political ) , the United Arab Emirates , and tiny Andorra. story continues below From 1900 to 2009 , there ' s no record of a fatal earthquake , flood , drought , or severe storm in any of those nations. ( Record-keeping might have been a little squishy decades ago , notes Slate. ) On the flip side , Ethiopia and Bangladesh generally rank near the top of the most-vulnerable list. ( Read more natural disaster stories. )"
574,"Plenty of people had to be rescued from flood waters in southeastern Kentucky over the weekend , including a woman who suffered a seizure , who was moved to safety in the bucket of a tractor. Eddie Stacy of the Hazel Green Volunteer Fire Department was moving his firetruck out of the path of a mudslide when he spotted a cellphone light shining in flood waters on Stamper Branch on Sunday. It turned out to be a family of five , including a 17-month-old boy , trapped in a stalled car with water up to the dashboard , Stacy tells USA Today. Firefighters used a rope to lead four of the five to safety , per WKYT. But the final woman suffered a seizure. That ' s when Wolfe County Sheriff Chris Carson "" came with his tractor , "" the Fire Department wrote on Facebook. A video shows the woman being driven out of the water in the bucket of the tractor. story continues below Stacy , who ' d been in the area to assist in removing a tree from the road , says firefighters "" don ' t do too much training on this water rescue "" but "" instinct "" kicked in. "" That little flashlight  just caught my attention , "" he notes. "" It was God to have me in that place where I was supposed to be. "" He adds the woman later recovered. Heavy rainfall was seen across the state Sunday and Monday , causing flash floods and mudslides. "" We expect this to be one of the largest flash-flooding events that we ' ve had , "" state director of emergency management , Michael Dossett , said Monday as Gov. Andy Beshear declared a state of emergency. He added first responders had been "" literally saving lives for the last 48 , 72 hours. "" In nearby Lee County , people were evacuated from homes in dump trucks while vaccine doses were rescued by boat , per USA Today and CNN. ( Read more Kentucky stories. )"
575,"As new accusations continue to emerge in the Harvey Weinstein scandal , a celebrity-driven hashtag has started a wave of people who are sharing their personal experiences with sexual abuse and harassment , Mashable reports. On Sunday afternoon , Alyssa Milano tweeted : "" If you ' ve been sexually harassed or assaulted write ' me too ' as a reply to this tweet. "" This quickly led to the #MeToo hashtag and a tsunami of posts that simply read "" Me too "" on Facebook , Twitter , and Instagram , as well as detailed stories from those who felt comfortable sharing more  all messages the Washington Post notes "" were striking in their simplicity , and in the sheer number of them. "" story continues below Included among the "" tens of thousands "" the New York Times says reacted to Milano ' s message were other names from show biz , including Debra Messing , Anna Paquin , and Javier Munoz , from Broadway ' s Hamilton. "" I don ' t know if [ it ] means anything coming from a gay man but it ' s happened. Multiple times , "" Munoz tweeted. CNN notes that Milano co-starred on Charmed with Rose McGowan , one of Weinstein ' s most vocal accusers. Milano also penned an essay last week about Weinstein on her Patriot Not Partisan website , noting she ' s friends with Weinstein ' s wife , Georgina Chapman , and that even though she ' s "" sickened and angered "" by the specific allegations against him , "" we must change things in general. We must do better for women everywhere. "" ( Read more sexual assault stories. )"
576,"Explosions tore through a Chevron oil refinery as it erupted in flames yesterday , driving toll takers from the Richmond Bridge and San Francisco Bay Area residents indoors. At least two fires were triggered when a diesel leak exploded at the Richmond refinery , one of the largest in the nation , reports the San Francisco Chronicle. There were no fatalities and no one was seriously injured. The plant was evacuated after workers spotted the leak. Minutes after the explosions , plant alarms alerted nearby residents to stay indoors with doors and windows shut to avoid breathing toxins in the air. Residents in all of Contra Costa County in the East Bay were being told to stay inside as hazmat trucks drove through streets taking air samples. Health officials , concerned about fumes from crude oil and diesel fuel , said that so far the winds seem to be carrying most of the smoke skyward. story continues below Dozens of people complaining about breathing problems headed to local emergency rooms. One patient with a burning throat and sore , itchy eyes , told the Chronicle : "" They told me I ' m not going to die , but it sure feels pretty serious. "" The fire was contained late last night as a crew of 60 firefighters battled the blaze with nitrogen and steam to keep it cool , but Chevron officials offered no estimate as to when the fire would be extinguished , NBC reports. The 1,200-worker refinery is Northern California ' s largest , the third biggest in the state , and is capable of processing more than 242,000 barrels of oil a day. ( Read more Chevron stories. )"
577,"What a museum worker calls an "" amazing story "" has emerged out of the south of Sweden , where a 1,500-year-old sword from the Iron Age was found in a lake  not by archaeologists or maritime researchers , but by an 8-year-old from Minneapolis. NPR reports on Saga Vanecek ' s discovery in July , made as she crawled on her hands and knees in the shallow waters of Lake Vidostern. Accustomed to bumping into rocks and sticks as she played in the lake , Saga instead stumbled on an object in the mud with a handle. "" She picked up the object , lifted it high above her head , and shouted as if she was Pippi Longstocking , ' DADDY ! I FOUND A SWORD ! ' "" her dad , Andy Vanecek , said in a Wednesday Facebook post , adding it ' s the "" first sword of its kind to ever be found in Scandinavia. "" The BBC notes the water level in the lake was low due to drought , which made it easier for Saga to find the sword. story continues below An expert from a local museum , which shows a pic of the "" exceptionally preserved "" sword , says the weapon is about 33 inches long and came in a wood-and-leather sheath. "" Why it has come to be [ in the lake ] , we don ' t know , "" the expert tells the Local , via NPR. "" But perhaps it ' s a place of sacrifice. "" Also found by researchers , who swore Saga and her family to secrecy until now so the site wouldn ' t be overrun by amateur excavators : a brooch from around the same time period as the sword , as well as an 18th-century coin , per MPR. Saga ' s dad is pretty excited , noting , "" I ' m a huge Minnesota Vikings fan , and this looks just like a Viking sword. "" As for Saga , who moved to Sweden with her family in 2017 , the Guardian notes some have dubbed her the country ' s "" true queen "" for her find. "" All hail ! Queen Saga ! Lady Vanecek of ... Vidostern ! "" one acolyte tweeted. ( Read more discoveries stories. )"
578,"Oxford , Miss. , lost its native son Ed Aschoff in a Christmas Eve tragedy , but Christmas day brings us the heartwarming story of 3-year-old Bailey Stacey , who , as the Oxford Eagle and the Oxford Police Department tell it , saved Christmas. The story dials back to Bailey ' s neighbor , police officer Rachel Ratcliffe , who says Bailey came over one day , "" introduced himself and asked about police work. I let him climb in ( her patrol car ) , he turned on the lights and he turned on the siren. He was just always asking how I was doing and if I saved anyone that day.  Says Bailey ' s dad , Ratcliffe "" would always make time for Bailey , "" no matter how tired she was. It was a rough year for the Staceys , and when their house flooded , Ratcliffe opened her home to them. With Christmas rolling around , she decided to set up a Grinch-themed "" investigation "" for Bailey to solve. story continues below Ratcliffe set up clues for Bailey to follow to save Oxford  and his own present  from the Grinch. The police department tweeted a video of it all. Officer Renika Franks set up clues at the Oxford and Lafayette County Library , Avent Park , and City Hall , hustling to keep ahead of Bailey and Ratcliffe. I think I had more fun than Bailey did ,  Franks said. Mayor Robyn Tannehill and Police Chief Jeff McCutchen were in on the fun , and Police Cpl. Blake Horton played the Grinch. Bailey caught the Grinch green-handed in the mayor ' s office , stuffing Christmas presents into his sack. Rather than clapping him in handcuffs , Bailey shook hands with the Grinch , who pointed out his present  a Power Wheels police car. Since then , Bailey ' s dad says , his son has run every morning , almost as soon as he wakes up , to make sure his patrol car is still safe and secure. ( Read more uplifting news stories. )"
579,"More than 100 firefighters from the US and Canada have rushed to the other side of the world to help fight the wildfires in Australia that have killed nearly two dozen people and an estimated 500 million animals so far. CNN reports things don ' t look to get any better on Saturday , with the nation ' s weather service warning of rising temperatures and heavier winds : "" Today will be a day of severe to extreme fire danger through many districts. "" In the Omeo section of Victoria state , things are especially dire after three separate blazes merged Friday night to form on giant inferno that the local Department of Environment , Land , Water , and Planning says stretches for 23 square miles  larger than the size of Manhattan , CNN notes. story continues below Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison  who the New York Times reports has been slammed for how he ' s handling the wildfires , including for going on vacation to Hawaii in the midst of it all  announced Saturday that 3,000 military reservists would be called upon to help with firefighting efforts , and that $ 14 million would be used to commission four more water-bombing aircraft. Meanwhile , at least one big name in the US is stepping up to help out her friends Down Under : Early Saturday , singer Pink tweeted she ' s "" totally devastated "" by what ' s going on there , and that she is pledging $ 500,000 for local fire departments. "" My heart goes out to our friends and family in Oz , "" she posted. ( At least 500 million animals are believed dead in the Australian fires. )"
580,"More than 100 Sherpas are rallying behind two mountain climbers who face being banned from Mount Everest for the next decade due to an obscure mountaineering rule they apparently broke. Per Outside , it started with a May 5 Facebook post by Willie Benegas , 49 , of Argentina , in which he announced that he , along with 20-year-old American Matt Moniz , had fulfilled a longtime goal. "" Well after 10 years dreaming about it , it happen ! "" he wrote , relaying that the pair had skied about 2,600 feet down the Lhotse Face , part of the Everest massif. They did so while they were getting acclimated to the environment in preparation for a climb up both Lhotse and Everest  a mission they now may not get to complete. It appears that while both men had the appropriate climbing permits , they didn ' t get the proper skiing permits , part of an overall permit process Outside calls "" baroque and convoluted. "" story continues below Legalese surrounding the specifics of skiing during Nepal mountaineering expeditions is confusing , and Benegas , who ' s summited Everest 11 times , says he ' d never heard of the ski permit before. The Sherpa community is standing behind the men , who ' ve brought lots of money into Nepal via tourism and fundraising after the 2015 earthquake there. Benegas and Moniz are also there for another reason : Per Science , they ' re trying to replicate the twin astronaut study done by Mark and Scott Kelly , but on Earth instead , each leaving their twin at sea level while they remain at high altitudes for a month ; they hope to see if there are any changes in gene expression. Both men say they ' ll pay for the permit retroactively in an attempt to square things. A Nepal Department of Tourism rep tells the Himalayan Times a decision on the men ' s climbing permits will be reached after a thorough investigation. ( Read more Mount Everest stories. )"
581,"Relief and joy in North Carolina : Casey Hathaway , the 3-year-old boy who wandered off into woods behind his grandmother ' s home in Ernul on Tuesday afternoon , has been found alive. The Craven County Sheriff ' s Office says Casey was found in good health Thursday by a professional search and rescue crew , USA Today reports. He was taken to East Carolina Medical Center for evaluation. The boy , who was not dressed for cold weather , disappeared in terrain that the sheriff ' s office described as treacherous. "" Areas are flooded and filled with sinkholes , even the trained searchers are having trouble navigating safely , "" the sheriff ' s office said earlier Thursday , as strong winds and rain hampered the search. story continues below Casey was found around 50 yards into the woods , tangled in briars , when searchers , who had been acting on a tip , heard him calling for his mother. Authorities believed he moved around during the time he was missing. "" He was cold but he was verbal in command to us. The more we warmed him up , the more active he became , "" rescuer Shane Greer tells WRAL. "" For the conditions , I think he fared pretty well. "" The boy ' s parents hugged rescuers Thursday night and thanked everybody involved in the search. "" We ' re very thankful that you took the time out to come search for Casey and prayed for him , "" his mother said. "" He ' s good. He ' s up and talking. He ' s already asked to watch Netflix , he ' s good. "" ( A boy in Japan survived on a mountain for three days after getting lost on his second birthday. )"
582,"Just how powerful was the 2011 earthquake that triggered a nuclear disaster in Japan ? The aftershocks are still coming a decade later , reports the Japan Times. The Fukushima region got hit with a 7.1 magnitude temblor over the weekend , and Japan ' s Meteorological Agency is calling it an aftershock from the 2011 quake. Aftershocks can continue for years after a big quake , explain the BBC and Earth &amp; Sky. This time , however , the earthquake began so deep under the ocean that it did not trigger a tsunami. More than 100 injuries were reported throughout Fukushima and Miyagi prefectures in northern Japan , as well as landslides and damaged buildings , but no deaths. More than 20,000 were believed to have been killed in the 2011 quake , and hundreds of thousands lost their homes. The nuclear cleanup from the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant will take decades to finish. story continues below Because ( the 2011 quake ) was an enormous one with a magnitude of 9.0 , it  s not surprising to have an aftershock of this scale 10 years later ,  Kenji Satake of the University of Tokyo  s Earthquake Research Institute tells the Japan Times. The earthquake comes almost exactly 10 years after the March 11 , 2011 , quake , and as Japan prepares to mark the anniversary. For example , Japan is hosting the Olympics this year , and the torch relay will begin next month in Fukushima to "" to showcase the recovery of the areas worst affected by the disaster , "" says the Olympic committee. Near the epicenter , Reuters caught up with the owner of a bar cleaning up broken bottles. We were hit by this coronavirus pandemic , and so we were looking forward to reopening our shops , and now this happens ,  she says. It  s just one thing after another.  ( Read more Japan earthquake stories. )"
583,"We use cookies. By Clicking "" OK "" or any content on this site , you agree to allow cookies to be placed. Read more in our privacy policy"
584,"April 22 has been set as "" Day Zero "" for Cape Town , but it ' s not a celebratory date. Time reports that following three years of record-setting drought , the South African city has enough water left in its reservoirs to last about 90 days  meaning it will become the planet ' s first big city to run out of water ( on Earth Day , ironically ) if things don ' t change drastically. If the worst-case scenario happens and reservoirs drop to 13.5 % capacity , the city ' s 4 million or so residents will see their taps run dry ( only essential services like hospitals will get water piped in ) and will be forced to head to select "" water points "" guarded by armed security to pick up a max of 6.6 gallons a day. A Johannesburg ecology professor told Bloomberg in December that such a development would be "" catastrophic. "" "" I know of no example of a city the size of Cape Town running out of water , "" he said. story continues below Residents have been told to keep water use down to 23 gallons per person per day , meaning two-minute showers , not using water to wash cars , and keeping dishwasher and washing machine use and flushing to a minimum. But those efforts haven ' t sufficed , and authorities fear the city is fast approaching what Time calls a sort of "" Mad Max territory. "" The cause for the shortage is a combination of little rainfall over the last three years  a "" less than once in a millennium "" occurrence , climatologists told Bloomberg  a 50 % population spurt in Cape Town over the past 10 years , and local politics. The city is now scrambling to see if it can set up groundwater extraction and costly desalination factories , but these alternatives likely won ' t be ready by April. "" We have to change our relationship with water , "" one resident told Bloomberg. "" We have to plan for being permanently in a drought-stricken area. "" ( A Corona brewery has been accused of draining Mexico ' s water supply. )"
585,"With a devastating earthquake in Burma following on the heels of the one in Japan , which itself followed one in New Zealand , Slate ' s Explainer blog digs into the question of just which nations are safest from natural disaster. Your winners , based on data from a Belgium center that analyzes such things : Estonia , Qatar , Bahrain ( note this is natural disaster , not political ) , the United Arab Emirates , and tiny Andorra. story continues below From 1900 to 2009 , there ' s no record of a fatal earthquake , flood , drought , or severe storm in any of those nations. ( Record-keeping might have been a little squishy decades ago , notes Slate. ) On the flip side , Ethiopia and Bangladesh generally rank near the top of the most-vulnerable list. ( Read more natural disaster stories. )"
586,"Some numbers related to the Japan earthquake , from CNN and ABC : 8 : Number of feet the coast of Japan moved eastward. Number of feet the coast of Japan moved eastward. 4 : Number of inches the Earth ' s axis shifted. Number of inches the Earth ' s axis shifted. 160 : Number of aftershocks in the first 24 hours , most of them with a magnitude of at least 5.0. Number of aftershocks in the first 24 hours , most of them with a magnitude of at least 5.0. 59 feet : How much tectonic plates slipped. How much tectonic plates slipped. 6 miles : How far inland some of the tsunami waves reached. story continues below "" At this point , we know that one GPS station moved ( 8 feet ) , and we have seen a map from ( Geospatial Information Authority ) in Japan showing the pattern of shift over a large area is consistent with about that much shift of the land mass , "" a geophysicist with the US Geological Survey tells CNN. For information on how to help , click here. ( Read more Japan earthquake stories. )"
587,"Fortnite is out with a new game map for players , and one thing is conspicuously missing : police cars. They were visible in previous versions , but no more , reports Kotaku. Players have noticed and were flooding online forums with messages of support and criticism , with most assuming the move is related to the Black Livers Matter movement. However , creator Epic Games has yet to publicly explain the rationale. story continues below "" I wouldn ' t say it ' s a political statement , "" a person familiar with the game ' s development tells the Wall Street Journal. "" I think it  s just us being sensitive about the issues many people in our audience are dealing with. "" The shooter-survival game had about 350 million players last month , making it one of the most popular games in the world. ( A lawsuit alleges that Fortnite is designed to be as addictive as cocaine. )"
588,"Northern California ' s biggest utility has shut off power to tens of thousands of customers in an unprecedented step to prevent wildfires amid rising winds and official warnings of extreme fire danger , the AP reports. Pacific Gas &amp; Electric began turning off the lights in California ' s wine country and other areas near the San Francisco Bay Area Sunday night. Schools in those areas canceled Monday classes. PG&E earlier announced its plan to shut power preemptively after authorities blamed its power lines for sparking some of California ' s most destructive wildfires last October in wine country. story continues below The utility faces payments of billions of dollars in damages and has sought to limit its wildfire liability in the courts and the state Legislature. The National Weather Service forecast winds gusting to 45mph on Monday in parched areas with drought-dried vegetation. ( A gender-reveal party sparked a huge wildfire. )"
589,"The toll in Indonesia from an earthquake-triggered tsunami is just starting to become clear , and it ' s getting worse by the hour. On the island of Sulawesi , nearly 400 were killed in the city of Palu alone , reports the BBC. Palu has a population of 380,000 people , and the toll there is expected to grow. Nearby cities and towns such as Donggala were similarly devastated , but relief crews have been unable to reach them yet , reports the AP. The 7.5-magnitude quake struck around dusk Friday , and it set off a tsunami at least 10 feet high that toppled buildings as it came ashore. Reuters has the estimate at 18 feet high. The BBC has video here. story continues below "" We hope there will be international satellites crossing over Indonesia that can capture images and provide them to us so we can use the images to prepare humanitarian aid , "" says a disaster agency spokesman. In the meantime , hospitals are overwhelmed with the injured. Many of the victims were swept away while on the beach , preparing for a major festival in Palu. The tsunami didn  t come by itself , it dragged cars , logs , houses , it hit everything on land ,  says the disaster official. ( Read more tsunami stories. )"
590,"The worst US drought in 50 years is making the mighty Mississippi River dry up and could curb shipping there altogether , reports Time. Dry conditions mean narrower , shallower passageways , so shippers are lightening their loads to avoid running aground. That could be huge , because 60 % of the country ' s grain exports and a fifth of its coal are shipped via inland waterways. A severe drought in 1988 made some parts of the river unnavigable , costing the shipping industry $ 1 billion. story continues below "" For the last two or three weeks , the phrase I keep hearing is , ' Close to 1988. Worse than 1988. Same as 1988 , ' "" says an industry insider. This year may be even worse : If river traffic is shut down , it could cost the industry about $ 300 million ... a day. We ' re not there yet , though  thanks in part to Army Corps engineers who are dredging stretches to keep water levels at least 9 feet deep. Ironically , their funding comes from a relief act doled out last year to deal with flooding. ( Read more Mississippi River stories. )"
591,"Australia is on fire , and it ' s getting worse. Over the weekend , it was reported that New South Wales , the country ' s most populous state , was dealing with dozens of wildfires that killed at least three people and destroyed more than 150 homes. On Monday , 60 fires were still ablaze , with the Guardian noting 40 of them were "" out of control , "" and local fire chiefs warned of a "" catastrophic "" Tuesday , bringing "" the most dangerous bushfire week this nation has ever seen. "" A severe drought in the region has exacerbated conditions , and temps hovering around 100 degrees Fahrenheit , as well as powerful winds , are expected to make the fires "" impossible to fight , "" the paper reports. story continues below NSW fire officials have issued a "" catastrophic "" fire warning across Sydney and surrounding areas , the first time that designation has been used there since a new fire-warnings system was instituted after 2009 ' s devastating Black Saturday bushfires. To make matters more problematic , the head of NSW Rural Fire Services says "" we have got the worst of our fire season still ahead of us , "" noting summer is right around the corner. Queensland has its own issues , with nearly 50 fires burning , and while the BBC notes the situation there isn ' t as bad as in NSW at the moment , officials predict things there could deteriorate by the end of the week. States of emergency have been declared in both NSW and Queensland , and thousands of people have been evacuated. There are also fires in South Australia and Western Australia. ( Read more Australia stories. )"
592,"Amidst the tornadoes that ripped through the southeast Sunday and Monday , a scene reminiscent of the Wizard of Oz : A Georgia home was torn from its foundation and flung 50 to 100 yards away , where it landed , intact , in the middle of a road. No one was inside at the time , the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reports. But the rest of the news from the Easter night tragedy was dire : Storms , which also triggered floods and mudslides , killed at least 33 across the southeast , destroyed and damaged buildings , and left 1.3 million homes and businesses without power , NBC News and the AP report. story continues below The tragedy came atop the coronavirus pandemic , leading many to seek safety from tornadoes in community shelters as they wore protective masks and were forced closer than six feet apart ( Alabama ' s governor suspended social distancing rules due to the storm ) . Mississippi ' s governor called the storms "" as bad or worse than anything we  ve seen in a decade. "" And Georgia ' s governor said many who lost their homes had just lost their jobs due to the pandemic : "" Now they have lost literally everything they own. "" ( A family of four was saved by their "" safe room. "" )"
593,"Duck Dynasty star Phil Robertson has had Sarah Palin and Bobby Jindal rush to his aid in the wake of his suspension from A&E over anti-gay comments he made in the course of a GQ interview , and the list of high-profile Republican names is growing. In an appearance on CNN ' s Crossfire yesterday , Newt Gingrich likened Robertson to ... Pope Francis. The standout quote : "" Ironically , if you read the whole interview , not just take one section , he talks very specifically about loving everybody. He talks very specifically about not being judgmental toward anybody , that  s God  s decision , not his. I mean , it is remarkable. There  s sections there where he sounds like Pope Francis. "" ( Panelist LZ Granderson shot back : "" There  s nothing really remarkable about slandering people and then coming around and saying , ' Love everybody. ' "" ) story continues below Meanwhile , Sen. Ted Cruz took to Facebook with his defense of Robertson , writing , "" If you believe in free speech or religious liberty , you should be deeply dismayed over the treatment of Phil Robertson. Phil expressed his personal views and his own religious faith ; for that , he was suspended from his job. "" And according to Fox News , the rest of the Duck Dynasty cast may not show up to the job in solidarity. They released a statement late yesterday saying that "" we have had a successful working relationship with A&E but , as a family , we cannot imagine the show going forward without our patriarch at the helm. We are in discussions with A&E to see what that means for the future of Duck Dynasty.  One option , per Raw Story : Glenn Beck offered the Robertson family a show on his online Blaze TV network. ( Read more Phil Robertson stories. )"
594,"Officials said Sunday they reached a turning point in fighting an enormous wildfire , hoping to get a "" death grip "" on the blaze that devastated Canada ' s oil sands town of Fort McMurray amid cooler temperatures and light rain , the AP reports. Meanwhile , a massive evacuation of residents displaced by the blaze came to an end. Chad Morrison of Alberta Wildfire told a news conference he ' s "" very happy "" and called it great firefighting weather. "" We can really get in there and really get a handle on this fire and really get a death grip on it , "" says Morrison , who answered yes when asked if they ' ve reached a turning point. With cooler temperatures in the next three or four days , he said firefighters should be able to put out hot spots. And it has allowed them to further protect fire-ravaged Fort McMurray. story continues below Alberta Premier Rachel Notley said the wildfire grew much more slowly than was feared and it is now 397,831 acres. She said the blaze is quite a bit smaller than had been expected on Saturday , when officials expected the fire to double in size. She added the city is safe for first responders and said she will visit the city on Monday to assess the damage. It rained on Sunday. The Rural Municipality of Wood Buffalo , which includes Fort McMurray , tweeted a picture of the rainfall and wrote : "" It was only for a few minutes but the sight of rain has never been so good. "" Notley retweeted the picture and wrote "" Here ' s hoping for much more ! "" Federal Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale says they "" may be turning a corner "" but it ' s too early to celebrate and a lot of work remains. ( Read more wildfires stories. )"
595,"Birds of Prey : And the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn does not exactly roll off the tongue. And after Warner Bros. ' latest DC Comics movie flopped at the box office , the studio is tweaking that title  kind of. It now appears as Harley Quinn : Birds of Prey on ticket seller websites , CNN reports , though the official name remains the same. Though the film nabbed the No. 1 spot when it debuted this weekend , it brought in just $ 33 million , the weakest opening for any film in the DC Extended Universe and far less than the $ 40 million to $ 60 million that had been anticipated. story continues below Also contributing to the low box-office returns : The film ' s R rating and the less familiar superheroes it features. It ' s also the first-ever team made up of all females to be featured in a comic book movie , and the Blaze reports that some were blaming sexism and misogyny for the film ' s failure to capture audiences. As CNBC reports , the movie ' s reviews are doing better than its box office numbers ; its 80 % fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes is the third-highest for any film in the DCEU. CNN notes Harley Quinn has a loyal fan base , and moving her name up in the title may indeed nudge more people to buy tickets. ( Robbie also appeared as Harley Quinn in Suicide Squad , which was not well-reviewed , to say the least. )"
596,"Tragedy in the Outback : The search for a missing 12-year-old by in a remote region of Australia ' s Northern Territory came to a sad end Thursday when a body was found just 400 feet from where three other people were earlier found dead near a broken-down vehicle , 9News reports. The bodies of a 19-year-old man , a 19-year-old woman , and a 3-year-old child were found late Wednesday on a remote road near Willowra , around 185 miles northwest of Alice Springs , reports the Guardian , which notes police had previously said they believed a 12-year-old had also been in the car. Authorities initially thought the passengers had died in a car crash but they now suspect the family died of exposure. Police say the deaths were reported by a "" distraught "" man who raised the alarm at a medical facility in Willowra. story continues below It took police hours to reach the site , which has been affected by recent flooding. "" This is a tragic situation and our thoughts remain with the families affected by this incident , "" Southern Desert Division Superintendent Jody Nobbs said , per the Sydney Morning Herald. "" This does serve as a timely reminder to anybody travelling on the Northern Territory roads , when you do travel , [ make sure ] your vehicle is in a fit state for travel , "" he added. "" And that you have sufficient supplies including water and a first aid kit , and someone is aware of what your travel itinerary is. "" Nobbs said authorities do not believe there were any other passengers in the vehicle , but the area is being extensively searched as a precaution. ( Read more Australia stories. )"
597,"Almost a decade after an earthquake triggered a tsunami that caused a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant , Japan is still grappling with the aftermath of the triple disaster  and with the question of what to do with more than a million metric tons of radioactive water. The government is expected to announce later this month that the water will be dumped into the ocean , but fishing groups say produce from the region will be shunned , and Greenpeace says the water could damage human DNA , the BBC reports. Japanese authorities say filtration can remove all radioactive isotopes except tritium , which it considers relatively harmless , but a report from Greenpeace warns that the water also holds dangerous levels of the carbon-14 isotope. story continues below Carbon-14 "" concentrates in fish at a level thousands of times higher than tritium , "" and has a half-life of 5,370 years , the Greenpeace report states. "" Carbon-14 is especially important as a major contributor to collective human radiation dose and has the potential to damage human DNA. "" Report author Shaun Burnie , a nuclear specialist with Greenpeace Germany , accuses the Japanese government and the plant ' s operator of "" covering up the scale of the crisis "" and failing to warn people in Japan and nearby countries that the water to be dumped contains carbon-14 , the Guardian reports. Authorities in Japan say space to store water used to cool the power station will run out in 2022. Their plan involves diluting the water inside the plant before releasing it into the ocean over the next 30 years. ( Read more Fukushima Dai-ichi stories. )"
598,"US prosecutors have indicted Venezuela ' s president and other senior government officials on charges of drug trafficking , claiming a "" narco-terrorism conspiracy. "" The unusual move against Nicolas Maduro , the Venezuelan government , intelligence officials , and members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia stems from a federal investigation in Washington , New York , and Florida , reports the New York Times. Maduro and aides are accused of working to "" flood the United States with cocaine "" an indictment reads , per NBC New York. They "" prioritized using cocaine as a weapon against America , "" the indictment continues , claiming Maduro "" helped manage and ultimately lead "" a criminal group dubbed the Cartel of the Suns. story continues below Sitting foreign leaders normally enjoy immunity from prosecution under US law and international norms , per the AP. But the US is among 60 countries that no longer consider Maduro a head of state even if he does hold de facto power. They instead recognize Juan Guaid , the head of congress , as Venezuela  s rightful leader following the socialist  s re-election in a 2018 race marred by allegations of fraud and an opposition boycott. As the indictments were unsealed , Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced that the State Department would offer cash rewards of up to $ 55 million for information leading to the arrests or convictions of Maduro and his associates. It offered rewards up to $ 15 million for Maduro and up to $ 10 million each for the others. ( Read more Nicolas Maduro stories. )"
599,"The Tea Party just scored a massive upset : Economics professor David Brat defeated House majority leader Eric Cantor in a GOP primary in Virginia , reports AP. Brat had accused the No. 2 Republican in the House ( and one-time Tea Party favorite ) of not being conservative enough , and the message evidently resonated with voters in the Richmond-area district. With John Boehner making noises about stepping down as speaker , the 51-year-old Cantor had been his presumed successor. No more. Politico calls it "" the most shocking primary defeat since Republicans took the House in 2010. "" story continues below Brat , who teaches at Randolph-Macon College near Richmond , argued on the campaign trail that Cantor was more concerned about his rising political star than conservative ideals. "" While he ' s got an eye on the speaker job , he ' s turned his back on his constituents , "" Brat told CNN yesterday. He also made an issue of immigration , criticizing Cantor ' s support of reform measures as "" amnesty. "" Brat had just $ 40,000 in his coffers at at the end of March , compared with Cantor ' s $ 2 million , reports the Washington Post. This is an earthquake ,  former Minnesota congressman Vin Weber and a friend of Cantor  s tells the newspaper. No one thought he  d lose.  ( Read more Eric Cantor stories. )"
600,"Earthquakes can have a silver  or rather golden  lining. Some six miles underground , water can contain trace amounts of gold and silica. When an earthquake occurs , voids along a geological fault widen suddenly , pressure plummets , and the water held inside turns to steam. Meanwhile , the gold and silica in that water end up on local surfaces , scientists in Australia suggest. It ' s not much gold , but it can build up over time , LiveScience reports. story continues below The phenomenon can cause gold to "" precipitate almost immediately , "" researchers say , per AFP. And even the smallest earthquakes may be capable of initiating the process. "" Given that small-magnitude earthquakes are exceptionally frequent in fault systems , this process may be the primary driver for the formation of economic gold deposits , "" says one of the researchers. The theory could also explain why gold is often associated with quartz , as in the 19th-century US gold rush. ( Read more gold stories. )"
601,"Oklahoma ' s government is siding with science , confirming that yes , fracking is largely responsible for the small , daily earthquakes rattling the state. The state ' s energy and environment department yesterday put up a website describing key evidence , just as the Oklahoma Geological Survey said in a statement that "" the injection of produced water in disposal wells "" is "" very likely "" causing most of the state ' s quakes. The statement , which notes residents should prepare for a "" significant earthquake , "" says that prior to 2008 , the state saw about 1.5 quakes each year that were magnitude 3 or greater , Reuters reports ; there are now about 2.5 per day. Most of the activity "" is occurring over a large area , about 15 % of the area of Oklahoma , that has experienced significant increase in wastewater disposal volumes. "" story continues below The website and statement mark a major change for Oklahoma. Last fall , Gov. Mary Fallin dismissed links between oil and gas activity and earthquakes as rumor. Still , the Oklahoma Oil and Gas Association isn ' t buying the OGS ' claims. "" There may be a link between earthquakes and disposal wells , "" its president says , per the New York Times. "" But we  industry , regulators , researchers , lawmakers , or state residents  still don ' t know enough about how wastewater injection impacts Oklahoma ' s underground faults. "" Rep. Cory Williams says "" the only way to protect the public "" is to freeze oil and gas wastewater disposal wells in 16 counties. ( A big Oklahoma quake may be on its way. )"
602,"The tallest building in Western Europe is currently London ' s Shard  but that won ' t last if a tiny Danish town gets its way , the Smithsonian reports. Brande , population 7,000 , has approved a 1,049-foot building for 30 retail stores , educational spaces , hotel rooms , and offices for a clothing company whose wealthy boss conceived the project. "" The overall building project is thought as an investment in Brande , and the planned high-rise building will function as an icon for the new expansion , "" says Anders Holch Povlsen , owner of Bestseller clothing , in a press release. The so-called Town and Village project was approved in March and could begin rising this year , per the Washington Post. Not that all Danes are pining for an Eiffel Tower-size skyscraper in a little town. story continues below "" For most people looking at a project like this being built in a community as small as this is , it does seem rather insane , doesn ' t it ? "" a local politician tells the Guardian. Likewise , an architect says the project "" will make the world claustrophobically small "" and a satirical Danish newspaper sees the influence of Sauron from The Lord of the Rings : "" I have offered to finance a major interactive art installation in the form of a blazing eye at the very top of the building , "" Sauron is quoted as saying. If it happens , this won ' t be among the world ' s 25 tallest buildings and may soon be topped by one from London or Paris , two European cities now approving skyscrapers after long resisting them. ( Read more skyscraper stories. )"
603,"Alaska State Troopers say six people are missing after a massive landslide caused by a record-breaking storm. Troopers said Wednesday evening that four homes were buried under 9 feet of mud and trees after a landslide 600 feet long swept through a neighborhood in Haines , around 90 miles north of Juneau , the Anchorage Daily News reports. Troopers said Wednesday evening that the search had been suspended due to "" rumbling unstable ground. "" Alekka Fullerton , Haines borough interim manager , tells CNN that "" the whole side of the hill has come down , "" leaving dozens of homes uninhabitable. story continues below Troopers say the search will resume Thursday when a helicopter with medics and search personnel arrives , the New York Times reports. "" Haines is going to be needing lots of prayers , "" Mayor Douglas Olerud said Wednesday. We have several roads that have washed out , mudslides , and houses flooding. "" Haines Avalanche Center director Erik Stevens tells the CBC that the town received more than 8 inches of rain in 36 hours , far more than it has seen even in "" extreme cases "" in the past. "" To get six inches in one day is , you know , pretty much double the strongest storms we ' ve seen in recent memory and eight inches in two days is definitely unheard of in the modern record , "" he says. ( Read more Alaska stories. )"
604,"Eating ice cream on a hot summer ' s day presents something of a challenge  one must tackle the meltiest spots fast enough , before the treat becomes a mess on the ground. But this summer in Japan , people are enjoying better living through chemistry with a new type of popsicle that basically doesn ' t melt , even in super hot August temperatures , reports Quartz. The secret , it turns out , is in strawberries , which contain polyphenol  a liquid extract that makes it harder for oil and water to separate , and in turn essentially solidifies dairy cream , a Kanazawa University professor who developed the next-gen popsicle tells Asahi Shimbun. story continues below No one set out to make this a reality ; it was actually a happy accident. Kanazawa-based Biotherapy Development Research Center was trying to use instead of waste the sub-par strawberries coming out of Miyagi Prefecture , which is still recovering from the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. The pastry chef charged with using strawberry polyphenol in confections complained that it made dairy cream solidify instantly , which struck the professor as potentially useful. After playing with many variations of milks , creams , and amounts of polyphenol and other ingredients , Tomihisa Ota hit upon the winning recipe , which has been sold as Kanazawa Ice since April. At 500 yen , or $ 4.50 a pop , Mashable calls it a "" small price to pay for a big luxury. "" ( Hangover ice cream is a thing in South Korea. )"
605,"In the 6.5 years since we last visited Pablo Escobar ' s hippo herd , it ' s become illegal to kill any member of the Colombian population , which is considered something of a country emblem. It ' s no surprise , then , that the non-native animals are breeding out of control in a population expected to reach the ecosystem ' s carrying capacity in the next two decades , according to a new study. The problem started when Escobar imported one male and three female hippos for a private zoo at his Hacienda Npoles ranch in the 1980s. After his death in 1993 , officials relocated most of the creatures to zoos , but let the aggressive 4,000-pound hippos be , per NBC News. Unencumbered by the droughts , disease , and predators of their native Africa , the animals have been expanding in reach  finding their way into the Magdalena River and surrounding lakes  and in number ever since. story continues below A 2020 study found hippo feces were contributing to toxic algae blooms , per Smithsonian. Experts also worry that threatened Antillean manatees are being forced from their habitats , per the Washington Post. But this is nothing compared to what could come. With their numbers growing about 10 % each year , the hippo population is expected to hit 1,418 by 2039 , at which point the hippos will have utilized all the food and space available , per the study published in Biological Conservation. To prevent that outcome , study author Nataly Castelblanco-Martnez says officials need to start culling 30 hippos per year. "" No other strategy is going to work , "" she tells the Post. Some see castration as an alternative. But castration is challenging , not least because male hippos have retractable testes. Indeed , one campaign to castrate hippos found it could only successfully do so to one hippo per year. ( Read more Colombia stories. )"
606,"Haiyan has arrived in Vietnam a much quieter storm ; it ' s been reduced to a Category 1 , the BBC reports , with sustained winds reaching 85mph. But in the Philippines , the devastation continues after what the New York Times calls one of history ' s "" most powerful "" typhoons ; it is the most powerful recorded this year. Though thousands of troops have been deployed , rescuers can ' t reach some areas amid the destruction. story continues below With many people lacking food , water , and electricity , cargo planes are delivering supplies. And looting continues : "" People are becoming violent , "" a high school teacher tells AFP. "" I am afraid that in one week , people will be killing from hunger. "" If estimates of 10,000 people killed are correct , Haiyan is the deadliest natural disaster the Philippines has ever seen , AFP notes , while pointing out the country is no stranger to such disasters : It sits within both a typhoon belt and the Pacific "" Ring of Fire , "" an arc of earthquake and volcanic zones. ( Read more typhoon stories. )"
607,"Williamson , W.Va. , is home to 2,900 people. That ' s one reason congressional investigators are flabbergasted by documents showing two local pharmacies received 20.8 million prescription painkillers from out-of-state drug companies over a decade , reports the Charleston Gazette-Mail. Ohio-based wholesaler Miami-Luken says it supplied 6.4 million hydrocodone and oxycodone pills to one Williamson pharmacy from 2008 to 2015. It also says it shipped 5.7 million pills to two pharmacies in nearby Kermit , home to 400 people , between 2005 and 2011. In 2008 alone , Miami-Luken provided the equivalent of 14 pills a day for every Kermit resident , including children , while Illinois-based drug wholesaler HD Smith supplied 3,000 hydrocodone tablets a day to a pharmacy in a town with 1,800 people , records show. story continues below "" These numbers are outrageous , and we will get to the bottom of how this destruction was able to be unleashed , "" members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee say. They add that their inquiry into the role of drug distributors in the opioid crisis has already revealed "" what seems to be a shocking lack of oversight. "" For example , 40 % of oxycodone prescriptions filled in 2015 by an Oceana pharmacy supplied by Miami-Luken went to patients of a doctor whose clinic was located two hours away , the panel says. Miami-Luken and HD Smith have separately paid millions to settle lawsuits accusing the companies of flooding West Virginia with opioids. They have until Feb. 9 to respond to investigators ' questions , including why shipments weren ' t deemed suspicious in a state with the highest drug overdose death rate in the country , per Fox News. ( Read more opioids stories. )"
608,"The Washington Post calls it a "" make-or-break "" meeting , and it looks like it ' s officially broke : Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer have pulled out of a planned meeting Tuesday with President Trump that was to also be attended by Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell , reports USA Today. The five planned to gather at the White House ahead of the Dec. 8 government funding deadline to discuss the ways forward : pass a short-term measure that would keep things riding along at current levels , get a spending bill passed , or allow a government shutdown. In a Tuesday morning tweet , Trump didn ' t sound overly optimistic about the meeting ' s prospects : "" Meeting with ' Chuck and Nancy ' today about keeping government open and working. Problem is they want illegal immigrants flooding into our Country unchecked , are weak on Crime and want to substantially RAISE Taxes. I don ' t see a deal ! "" story continues below "" Given that the President doesn ' t see a deal between Democrats and the White House , we believe the best path forward is to continue negotiating with our Republican counterparts in Congress instead , "" Pelosi and Schumer said in a statement. "" Rather than going to the White House for a show meeting that won ' t result in an agreement , we ' ve asked Leader McConnell and Speaker Ryan to meet this afternoon. "" Trump ' s mention of illegal immigrants was likely a reference to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals ( DACA ) program , and the potential that Democrats will use the looming deadline as leverage to insist that any spending plan include money to continue DACA. A slew of other issues may be folded into this fight as well , including funding for the Children ' s Health Insurance Program. More here. ( Read more President Trump stories. )"
609,"More than a million people in three states have been ordered to leave their homes as Hurricane Dorian slowly moves toward the East Coast. South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster and Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp have ordered the evacuation of their state ' s entire Atlantic coastlines , the AP reports. The storm , which made landfall in the Bahamas as a devastating Category 5 hurricane on Sunday , is expected to batter that country throughout Monday before before turning north just off Florida ' s coast Tuesday , the Miami Herald reports. Mandatory evacuation orders have also been issued for some of the more vulnerable coastal areas in Florida , where authorities warn that the hurricane could still change course and make landfall. The National Hurricane Center warned Sunday that Dorian "" will move dangerously close to the Florida east coast tonight through Wednesday evening. "" story continues below The evacuation orders cover at least 830,000 people in South Carolina and more than 200,000 in Georgia , NBC reports. In South Carolina , state troopers will make all lanes on coastal highways one-way heading inland at noon Monday , McMaster said. "" We can ' t make everybody happy , but we believe we can keep everyone alive , "" the governor said. In the Bahamas , where Dorian hit with 185mph sustained winds  tying a record for the most powerful Atlantic hurricane ever to make landfall  homes have been wrecked and at least one person has been killed , the Guardian reports. In a nationally televised address Sunday , Prime Minister Hubert Minnis said the country was being "" put to the test "" by a "" monster storm , "" adding that it was "" probably the most sad and worst day of my life to address the Bahamian people. "" ( Read more Hurricane Dorian stories. )"
610,"Thousands of supporters of President Trump returned to Washington for rallies on Saturday , and things turned violent after sundown , per the AP. Sporadic fights broke out between pro-Trump and anti-Trump demonstrators. WRC-TV reported that four people were taken to a hospital with stab wounds , and the Metropolitan Police Department told the station that 23 people were arrested. It wasn ' t immediately clear whether the victims were pro- or anti-Trump , reports the Washington Post , which adds that some of the injuries might be life-threatening. While Saturday  s rallies , including one on Freedom Plaza in downtown DC , were smaller than on Nov. 14 , they drew a larger contingent of the Proud Boys , a neo-fascist group known to incite street violence. story continues below After the rallies ended , downtown Washington quickly devolved into crowds of hundreds of Proud Boys and combined forces of antifa and local Black activists  both sides seeking a confrontation in an area flooded with police officers. As dusk fell , they faced off on opposite sides of a street , with multiple lines of city police and federal Park Police , some in riot gear , keeping them separated. The violence came just two days before the Electoral College meets to formally elect Joe Biden as the 46th president. Trump , whose term will end Jan. 20 , refuses to concede , while clinging to claims of fraud that have been rejected by state and federal courts , and Friday by the Supreme Court. ( Trump buzzed supporters with a flyover on Saturday. )"
611,"A top Trump appointee argued this summer that "" infants "" and "" kids "" should be infected with COVID-19 , CNBC reports. In a July 4 email brought to light by a House subcommittee , former Health and Human services advisor Paul Alexander wrote to senior officials that Washington should let "" non-high risk groups expose themselves to the virus. Infants , kids , teens , young people , young adults , middle aged with no conditions etc. have zero to little risk ... so we use them to develop herd. "" He added that "" we want them infected ... and recovered ... with antibodies. "" A few weeks later , Alexander suggested that "" it may be best "" to "" open up and flood the zone and let the kids and young folk get infected "" while protecting "" the elderly and at risk folks "" in order to attain "" natural immunity. "" story continues below Alexander was forced out after Trump ally Michael Caputo , who headed HHS public affairs , left his post in September. Now their alleged meddling at HHS has raised eyebrows at the House coronavirus subcommittee. The emails "" show a pernicious pattern of political interference by Administration officials , "" said Rep. Jim Clyburn , who chairs the watchdog committee , per Politico. "" As the virus spread through the country , these officials callously wrote , ' who cares ' and ' we want them infected. ' "" Trump officials have long denied considering herd immunity , but Kyle McGowan , ex-CDC chief of staff , said Alexander often delayed the agency ' s weekly reports or cut back on its advice. "" He absolutely put pressure on the CDC on different guidance documents , "" McGowan said. ( One country did try the "" herd immunity "" approach. )"
612,"Mount Everest finally reopened last month after the deadly April earthquake , but Nepal wants to limit who is allowed to climb the peak. Officials there say they want a ban that would keep the very young , elderly , disabled , and inexperienced off the world ' s tallest mountain for safety and to maintain Everest ' s "" glory , "" the Guardian reports. Those under 18 and over 75 , as well as disabled climbers , would be denied their chance at high-altitude prestige ; also disallowed would be climbers who can ' t prove they can ascend mountains of 21,325-plus feet ( Everest is 29,029 feet high ) . "" We cannot let everyone go on Everest and die , "" says Nepal ' s tourism minister , who wants the ban in place by spring. "" If they are not physically and mentally fit , it will be like a legal suicide. "" story continues below The ban is controversial : Although Everest fanatics bring millions of tourism dollars to Nepal each year , overcrowding and mismanagement have tainted the sport , especially when it comes to the oft-underpaid Sherpas who risk their lives ( 16 Sherpas died on the mountain during an April avalanche ) . But Mark Inglis , the first double amputee to reach the summit , doesn ' t agree with the blanket "" disabled "" ban. "" It really doesn ' t matter how many limbs you ' ve got , but how able you are , "" he tells the New Zealand Herald. "" There are plenty of people out there who are able-bodied who will never ever make it up Everest. "" Skeptics include the president of the Nepal Mountaineering Association. "" I doubt this will be implemented , "" he tells the Guardian. "" Earlier such plans were aborted because of pressure from human rights organizations and foreign embassies. "" ( In the Telegraph , two experienced mountaineers discuss whether the ban is reasonable. )"
613,"Steven Holcomb was ordinary and remarkable. America ' s best bobsled pilot was a self-described computer geek who rubbed elbows with Hollywood stars. He was never exactly in the best shape , yet was a world-class athlete. He attempted suicide years ago , then revealed his story in hope of helping others. He nearly went blind , then won gold. His life was the epitome of a bobsled race , reports the AP , filled with twists and turns. It came to a most unexpected end Saturday in Lake Placid , NY , when he was found dead in his room at the Olympic Training Center  sending shock waves through the US Olympic community. The three-time Olympic medalist and five-time world champ was 37. "" The only reason why the USA is in any conversation in ... bobsled is because of Steve Holcomb , "" said pilot Nick Cunningham , who roomed next to Holcomb in Lake Placid. "" He was the face of our sport. Every driver in the world watched him , because he was that good at what he did. "" story continues below No cause of death was immediately announced. However , there were no indications of foul play and USA Bobsled said it was believed Holcomb died in his sleep. An autopsy is set for Sunday. Holcomb ' s signature moment came at the 2010 Vancouver Games when he piloted his four-man sled to a win that snapped a 62-year gold-medal drought for the US. Holcomb also drove to bronze medals in both two- and four-man events at the 2014 Sochi Games , and was to be part of the 2018 Olympic team. "" Steve was a tremendous athlete and even better person , "" US Olympic Committee CEO Scott Blackmun said. Holcomb was cherubic , almost always happy in public , and teammates spent a season chronicling his "" Holcy Dance , "" a less-than-rhythmic shuffle. His agent tells USA Today he recently spent a week with him. "" Everything was cool , "" he said. "" He told me with the world championships being in Whistler in 2019 , that would be his swan song. "" ( Holcomb once took Lolo Jones to task. )"
614,"Fourteen years after the devastating Indian Ocean tsunami , Indonesia is counting the victims of another killer wave. The death toll in the Saturday tsunami has now hit 281 , with dozens more missing and around 1,000 people injured , the BBC reports. People near the island volcano of Anak Krakatau  "" Child of Krakatoa ""  have been warned to stay away from beaches in case fresh volcanic activity leads to more underwater landslides and more tsunamis. Officials have confirmed that Saturday ' s wave was caused by an underwater landslide that involved the collapse of a large section of the volcano ' s southern flank in the strait that separates Java from Sumatra. Thousands of soldiers , police officers , and volunteers are still searching for survivors amid the debris , the AP reports. story continues below Officials say there was no tsunami warning because the wave was not triggered by an earthquake , the Guardian reports. Disaster agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho says a new early warning system must be built  especially since the buoy network put in place after the 2004 disaster has fallen into disuse because of vandalism and budget shortages. Experts , however , aren ' t sure whether a warning system could have helped after Saturday ' s tsunami , which came after the volcano had been erupting for months. "" It seems like the volcano is active at the moment and it may happen again ,  says University of Queensland Teresa Ubide said. The volcano is near the shoreline , so "" there wouldn  t be much time to warn because it  s close and the tsunamis can travel very fast , "" she says. ( Video captured the horrifying moment when Saturday ' s tsunami pulled a band into the sea. )"
615,"What better way to thank the firefighters risking their lives to put out a forest fire in your community than by robbing them blind ? Such is the case for US Forest Service firefighters as they arrived at a landfill Wednesday morning outside of Clearlake , Calif. , ready to start working to contain the Clayton fire , Lake County News reports. A white Chevy pickup truck with two men inside was driving away just as they got there , and when the firefighters examined their bulldozers , which they used to create fire containment lines , there were shoe prints ( not the firefighters ' ) on and near the bulldozers. Further investigation revealed a bunch of the firefighters ' gear to help them fight the blaze had been lifted from the vehicles , including a chainsaw , an emergency fire shelter , and a portable GPS unit. story continues below Clearlake cops spotted a vehicle matching the Chevy ' s description later that day rendezvousing with another truck , and they say most of the stolen gear ( sans the GPS device ) was found inside the trucks. Drivers Larry Hunter , 52 , and Paul Albini , 47  both sporting footwear that matched the footprints found on the bulldozers  were arrested and charged on suspicion of grand theft and possession of methamphetamine , the Press Democrat reports. Bail for each was set at $ 15,000 before their scheduled Tuesday arraignments. ( A California wildfire recently took out an iconic diner. )"
616,"For the first in almost two decades , water spilled from the top of Shasta Dam in California this week  another sign that the state ' s long drought is all but over. With Lake Shasta , California ' s largest reservoir , at 93 % capacity , officials opened Shasta Dam ' s topmost gates one at a time on Wednesday , letting billions of gallons stream down its 602-foot facade over 15 minutes , per the Los Angeles Times. It was a test designed to see how the gates would perform should upcoming storms require their use ; officials say they were in good working order despite last being opened in 1998 , reports the Redding Record Searchlight. story continues below Though the dam ' s three gates and 12 valves allowed 523,600 gallons of water to spill out of the reservoir per second , a rep for the Bureau of Reclamation says almost as much water is coming into the reservoir. That ' s one reason some experts are saying California ' s five-year drought is over. Not only is the reservoir at 135 % of its historical average for February , per the Times , but several areas of California were under flood warnings with record amounts of rainfall this week , reports ABC News. "" I believe that the drought is over at this point , "" says a US Geological Survey hydrologist. But others are more cautious , and the state water board hasn ' t gone that far yet. ( Read more California stories. )"
617,"Toronto police pulled off an impressive rescue in the city swamped by flooding Tuesday night. Six minutes after receiving a call about two men trapped in a flooded elevator with only a foot of air space , officers swam into the water-filled basement of a commercial building and used a crowbar to free the pair , both of whom were fine other than a minor hand injury. "" It ' s actually quite an amazing story and we ' re just happy everything turned out in a positive manner , "" a police spokeswoman tells the Canadian Press , adding the men were able to stand on the elevator ' s handrails to keep their heads above the water , which had reached six feet. "" The water was rising very , very quickly , "" she tells Global News. story continues below Environment Canada had issued a weather warning , lifted around 11 : 30pm , with 2 to 4 inches of rain expected across the region. Per Global News , a meteorologist says 2 to 3 inches or "" basically more than a month ' s rain "" fell in the span of a few hours , leading to flash flooding in the downtown core. Rain filled underpasses , submerging cars whose occupants were safely rescued. Photos shared on social media showed streetcars unmovable , while City News reports one was also submerged. Mayor John Tory even felt the effects : Staffers used at least 10 buckets to catch water from leaks in the roof outside his office at City Hall , per CP. At least 16,000 people lost power in the city , though it has since been restored. ( Read more rescue stories. )"
618,"People in Napa Valley , Calif. , are picking up the pieces after Sunday ' s 6.0 earthquake wrecked scores of homes and businesses , and they ' re getting plenty of help from outside. Volunteers have flocked from across Northern California to assist in any way they can , reports the Los Angeles Times. The helpers include scores of Home Depot workers and an engineer from the Czech Republic who was on vacation in San Francisco when the quake struck and drove out to offer his services. "" When you meet people who are helping each other , there ' s no difference between religions or between colors , "" he says. More : The damage is estimated at up to $ 1 billion , but wineries say they will pull through and they hope tourists won ' t stay away , the New York Times reports. "" In the end , people who are growing grapes are farmers , "" says an official of an organization that represents 500 local vintners. "" This is a particularly strong expression of Mother Nature , but they deal with Mother Nature every day , and they are very resilient. "" story continues below Dozens of homes have been declared uninhabitable and more than 250 people are recovering from injuries , but there have been no fatalities from the area ' s worst earthquake since 1989 , the San Francisco Chronicle reports. The two most seriously injured victims , one of them a 13-year-old boy hurt by a falling chimney , are both expected to survive. Seismologists are still working to determine the exact cause of the quake , LiveScience reports. It was initially believed to be connected to the Franklin Fault  which has been dormant for thousands of years  but researchers now believe it was the West Napa Fault , part of a wide network of faults around the San Andreas Fault , which lies 31 miles away. ( Read more Napa earthquake stories. )"
619,"Residents of Los Angeles should be feeling more than empathy in the wake of Mexico City ' s 7.1 magnitude earthquake that left more than 200 dead Tuesday. They should also be experiencing fear , writes Mariel Garza at the Los Angeles Times. "" Though of course my heart goes out to the people whose lives and homes were just ripped apart , and of course they will be in our collective prayers , what keeps me riveted to my Twitter feed and the videos therein is the sense that I  m glimpsing my own future , "" writes the LA resident. Experts say the city of 4 million is overdue for a big earthquake. But "" it ' s easy to forget when the ground is still , "" Garza writes. "" This was a sobering and graphic reminder. "" story continues below Garza was especially moved by videos showing whole buildings crumbling to dust or families huddled together as their house shakes. He says he ' ll be glued to coverage of the ongoing rescues and cleanup , searching for "" clues and lessons "" in the hope that "" when it ' s LA ' s turn , I will be ready. "" But despite experts ' predictions , not many Angelenos appear to be living in fear , even after LA was shaken by a 3.6 magnitude tremor and 2.0 magnitude aftershock on Monday , per the Times. The New York Times rounds up reactions of the relatively small tremor from celebrities , including musician Cray , who tweeted a photo that appeared to show a water bottle had fallen off a counter during the quake. "" WE WILL REBUILD , "" she joked. ( Click to read Garza ' s full column. )"
620,"Two days after a powerful earthquake shook southern Taiwan , at least four more survivors have been pulled from the rubble of a collapsed 17-story apartment building in Tainan , the AP reports. A woman who called out "" Here I am ! "" was found under the body of her husband , while rescuers also discovered a 42-year-old man and a 28-year-old Vietnamese woman. An 8-year-old girl was also pulled to safety. "" She is awake , but looks dehydrated , lost some temperature , "" the Tainan mayor says. "" I asked her if there ' s anything wrong with her body. She shook her head. "" The death toll is currently hovering at just under 40 , but more than 100 people are still missing , per Reuters. So far , at least 170 survivors have been pulled from the wreckage of the building , which the Miami Herald says "" folded like an accordion "" during the 6.4-magnitude temblor. story continues below A rescuer tells the paper that "" it takes a few hours to complete a search for just one household and sometimes it takes two hours just to go forward  12 inches. "" Not many buildings were damaged in the quake , mainly because Taiwan holds high building standards. The government says it will investigate whether this building ' s construction was subpar , with both the outgoing and incoming Taiwanese presidents noting more work needs to be done to ensure building safety , per Reuters. Suspicions about this particular building were heightened by witnesses who say they spotted big commercial cans of cooking oil shoved into wall cavities as makeshift building materials. "" I told my son not to buy an apartment here ; it was suspiciously cheap , "" a man who ' s trying to help rescuers find his young grandsons tells the Herald. ( Read more Taiwan stories. )"
621,"Asked if there were any dead , the mayor of the central Italian town of Amatrice , hit hard by an overnight quake , said , "" Look there are houses that aren ' t here anymore. ... the town isn ' t here anymore. "" The quake  being reported variously as between magnitude 6.0 and 6.2  struck shortly after 3 : 30am , collapsing homes on top of residents as they slept , and was followed by dozens of aftershocks , reports the AP. Along with Amatrice , which sits 80 miles northeast of Rome , Pescara del Tronto and Accumoli were among the hardest-hit towns ; at least 73 people are dead , per AP. Reuters reports those towns are located in the "" mountainous heart of the country , "" which makes for a more complicated rescue effort. story continues below ANSA quotes civil protection authorities as calling Wednesday ' s quake "" comparable in intensity "" to the 2009 L ' Aquila earthquake that took 300 lives , and witnesses are describing "" apocalyptic scenes. "" A man whose home collapsed in Via Costanzo Angelini tells ANSA , "" Ten seconds were enough to destroy everything. I can remember the L ' Aquila earthquake , it lasted longer. Here everything happened in a flash. "" The center of Amatrice was devastated , reports the AP , with entire buildings razed and the air thick with dust and smelling strongly of gas. "" It was one of the most beautiful towns of Italy and now there ' s nothing left , "" said one woman , too distraught to give her name. "" I don ' t know what we ' ll do. "" ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
622,"A new technology could make a world of difference to struggling farmers low on water but rich in cow poop , scientists say. A Michigan State University team has created a system that extracts drinkable water  at least fit for livestock to drink  from manure , creating roughly 50 gallons of water from every 100 gallons of manure and reducing the poop ' s environmental impact. "" If you have 1,000 cows on your operations , they produce around 100 million gallons of manure a year , "" biosystems professor Steve Safferman says. "" About 90 % of manure is water but it contains large amounts of nutrients , carbon , and pathogens that can have an environmental impact if not properly managed. "" story continues below The team says the McLanahan Nutrient Separation System , which as its name implies also extracts nutrients from the manure , has been in the making for a decade and will hopefully be ready for commercial application this year ; the team is still looking into the financial feasibility of the system for farmers. "" Here in Michigan , we have a tendency to take water for granted , "" Safferman says. "" But out west , for example , where drought remains an issue , the accessibility of clean water could make the difference between a farm remaining viable or going out of business. "" The goal is to increase the conversion to 65 gallons of water per 100 gallons of cow manure. ( In other eyebrow-raising water news : One Texas town is turning to toilet water for its drinking needs. )"
623,"After next year ' s election , South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott might be the only black Republican in Congress. Rep. Will Hurd , the only black Republican in the House , has announced his retirement , the Hill reports. "" I have made the decision to not seek reelection for the 23rd Congressional District of Texas in order to pursue opportunities outside the halls of Congress to solve problems at the nexus between technology and national security , "" Hurd tweeted Thursday night. The 41-year-old former CIA agent represents Texas ' 23rd congressional district , a sprawling border district the size of New York state that has flipped from Republican to Democratic twice in the last 13 years. The Dallas Morning News calls the district , which narrowly re-elected Hurd last year , the "" only true swing district in Texas. "" story continues below Hurd was one of only four House Republicans who broke ranks to condemn President Trump ' s inflammatory tweets about Rep. Ilhan Omar and other minority Democrats. He disagreed with the president on other issues including the border wall , saying "" building a 30-foot wall from sea to shining sea is the most expensive and least efficient way to do border security. "" Hurd is the seventh House Republican to announce their retirement at the end of this term of Congress , though his departure is seen as the most significant sign that GOP lawmakers are pessimistic about retaking the House , Mediaite notes. In last year ' s election , Hurd was the only House Republican to win in a district Hillary Clinton won in 2016. In another tweet Thursday , Hurd said he is going to stay "" involved in politics to help make sure the Republican Party looks like America. "" ( Read more House Republicans stories. )"
624,"The cyclone that slammed into southern Africa last week has created a slowly unfolding disaster that could be among the worst in the Southern Hemisphere ' s history , aid workers say. The official death toll from Cyclone Idai in Mozambique , Malawi , and Zimbabwe is below 400 , but more than 2.6 million people were affected and the true toll may not be known for months , the Guardian reports. Emergency workers say continuing heavy rains have caused the region ' s worst flooding in more than 20 years , reports the AP. In Mozambique , flooding has created "" inland oceans extending for miles and miles in all directions , "" says Herve Verhoosel of the United Nations ' World Food Program. "" This is a major humanitarian emergency that is getting bigger by the hour. "" Beira , a port city in Mozambique with a population of 500,000 , has been devastated and is cut off from the rest of the country. story continues below Stranded people have been seen gathered on rooftops and clinging to trees , aid workers say. Verhoosel says desperately needed food aid has been distributed to the worst-hit areas by boat , helicopter , and plane , the New York Times reports. "" Incredible "" pilots have been flying into airports "" damaged by the water , dark with no light or radio communication with the control tower , "" he says. Mozambique ' s President Filipe Nyusi estimated Tuesday that the cyclone had killed more than 1,000 people in his country alone. World Meteorological Organization spokeswoman Clare Nullis says reports suggest that this could be "" one of the worst weather-related disasters "" in the hemisphere ' s history. ( Read more cyclone stories. )"
625,"If California ' s San Ramon had to pick a theme song , it might be AC/DC ' s "" You Shook Me All Night Long. "" That ' s because over the past two weeks , the Bay Area town has endured more than 400 earthquakes  408 , to be exact , which averages out to more than one quake an hour , Popular Science reports. Since Monday alone , there have been 60 quake recordings , per the Los Angeles Times , though most have been so small that no one noticed ( they ' re taking place about 5 or 6 miles underground , per the US Geological Survey ) . The largest one recorded was a 3.6-magnitude shaker on Oct. 19. These earthquake "" swarms "" aren ' t unusual in the Golden State , though they ' re more prevalent in other areas , including the regions near Mammoth Lakes and Imperial Valley , per the Times. story continues below "" The good news is that most of these earthquakes stay under magnitude 4 , "" a USGS Earthquake Science Center spokeswoman tells the San Francisco Chronicle. The USGS also notes that these tiny tremors don ' t necessarily mean a havoc-wreaking seismic event is around the corner  experts say there ' s only a 7 % chance of there being a quake of 6.7 magnitude or higher over the next three decades , the Chronicle notes  and that the current swarm could continue for a few more weeks before finally dying down. "" I ' ve not felt so many tremors in decades , "" a local tells NBC Bay Area. "" My dog  [ is ] the first one to know a couple of seconds before. "" ( A controversial NASA study warns that the LA area will be hit within a few years with a major quake. )"
626,"As predicted , Hurricane Ida has strengthened to a devastating category 4 storm as it makes its inevitable march toward the Gulf Coast early Sunday , the 16th anniversary of Hurricane Katrina ' s landfall. Per CNN , the storm now has sustained winds of 150mph , which puts it just under a catastrophic category 5 hurricane. Nonetheless , weather watchers and politicians are all saying the same thing : get out now or risk dying. The dire warnings include possible tornadoes in Alabama , Florida , Louisiana and Mississippi ; wind gusts capable of annihilating homes ; and a storm surge forecasted to be 10 to 15 feet at its most extreme points from Morgan City , Louisiana to the mouth of the Mississippi. story continues below The storm surge is a particular source of concern for officials , who did not mince words Sunday. "" I want to reiterate the storm surge that we are expecting is unsurvivable , "" Jefferson Parish President Cynthia Lee Sheng said at a news conference Sunday , per WGNO. "" We need you to leave immediately. "" It ' s anticipated the surge will most directly affect those outside the New Orleans levee protection system , where flash flooding will be most intense. Should the storm hit land with its current sustained wind speeds , it would tie the two strongest hurricanes to ever hit Louisiana -- Laura from last year and another that struck way back in 1856. As many residents fled , Collin Arnold , director of the New Orleans Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness , said Saturday that those who stay should not expect help to come soon after the storm passes. "" We say the first 72 ( hours ) is on you , "" he told CNN , urging those who stay to stock up on food and supplies. "" The first three days of this will be difficult for responders to get to you. "" Meanwhile , as the pandemic rages on , others have no choice but to stay. With COVID cases surging in the region , hospitals will not evacuate. They have , instead , contingency plans in place that include increased staffing and extra supplies , per NBC News. ( Read more Hurricane Ida stories. )"
627,"Margaret Holcomb is an 81-year-old grandmother in Amherst , Mass. , who says she has been growing one marijuana plant in her raspberry patch for years because it soothes her arthritis and glaucoma and also helps her sleep at night. So when a military-style helicopter descended on her garden ( which is fenced in , away from neighbors ) on Sept. 21 , and uprooted the plant that was almost ready for harvest , her son , who was home at the time , tells the Daily Hampshire Gazette that it was "" shocking "" and "" scary as hell. "" Holcomb is technically growing the plant illegally in a state that has approved medical marijuana use because she has no card , though full legalization of recreational use is on the ballot next month , reports Reason. story continues below I had been nursing this baby through a drought , and I was pretty pissed to tell you the truth ,  Holcomb tells the Boston Globe. A state police spokesman said the National Guard and State Police conducted a widespread raid of 44 plants on multiple area properties , seizing the plants but not pressing any charges. Holcomb ' s son questions whether the state is using due process in fly-by raids without warrants , while his mom warns : "" You have overstepped , and I am not going to step aside. "" For now , Holcomb says she ' s worried about the cost of getting medical marijuana and says she may just plant another seed for next year. ( This pot proponent quit her job on-air over legalizing pot , and now faces 54 years in prison. )"
628,"The ability of Earth ' s forests to stand up to droughts may be worse than previously believed. The Washington Post reports that many current scientific models assume trees recover immediately following a drought. But Princeton ' s William Anderegg demonstrated droughts actually have "" legacy effects "" on trees in a study published earlier this year. According to Live Science , Anderegg explained the problem Monday at the annual American Geophysical Union meeting. Trees have to work harder to suck up water during a drought ; that creates air bubbles in the tree ' s vascular system that can lead to water- and nutrient-blocking embolisms. Anderegg ' s team found that droughts can continue to affect trees for up to four years after normal conditions return. story continues below During the years following a drought , trees are prevented from growing at their normal rates , possibly hurting the amount of carbon dioxide they pull out of the atmosphere , the Post reports. Even worse , dead trees dump greenhouse gases back into the atmosphere , creating a feedback loop of more droughts and dead trees. While climate models suggest droughts will become more frequent and severe in the coming years , Anderegg tells Live Science it ' s not too late to prevent the worst of it by reducing carbon emissions. "" The future of a lot of these forests really rests in our hands ,  he tells the Post. The sooner and the more effectively we address climate change , the less risks forests will face.  ( Listen closely , and you can hear California ' s drought. )"
629,"One in 25 patients in US hospitals gets a new infection at the facility , according to the federal health department , and the numbers are three times that in non-industrialized countries , a Chilean researcher tells NPR. Healthcare-acquired infections , as they ' re known , can lead to longer hospital stays , increased treatment costs , and in some cases , even death , Constanza Correa adds. The CDC director says 200 people per day die of such illnesses. The good news is that Correa and others are testing a simple method that could cut down on such illnesses : Copper bed rails. Copper has been known for millennia as a material that can quickly get rid of bacteria , viruses , and more ; in Correa ' s words , it "" kills everything. "" A US study found last year that the rails cut infections from 8.1 % to 3.4 % of hospital rooms. story continues below Correa ' s team has been replacing bed rails in Chile with copper since last year ; so far , they ' ve made the conversion on 150 beds in four hospitals. And "" bed rails are only the first step. You can have copper IV poles , feeding tables , night tables , even mattress covers. "" Indeed , an earlier study highlighted at the Blaze investigated copper door handles , toilet seats , and faucets ; researchers found that they had 95 % fewer "" bugs "" on them than standard equipment , the Daily Mail reported in 2008. More recently , researchers in Germany have been exploring the possibilities of copper ; they found a 50 % reduction in microbes , Deutsche Welle reports. ( Another metal may work wonders against superbugs. )"
630,"North Korea is funneling millions of dollars stolen by hackers into nuclear weapons , according to a new and confidential UN report , which also points the finger at Iran. The document accuses Kim Jong Un ' s regime of coordinating "" operations against financial institutions and virtual currency exchange houses "" to pay for new weapons for nuclear and missile programs , and of seeking "" material and technology for these programs from overseas ""  particularly Iran , per CNN. It was one of several outlets ( the AP is another ) to receive portions of the report , which comes from the UN Panel of Experts on North Korea and is based on information from member countries , intelligence agencies , defectors , and the media. One unnamed member nation claimed hackers stole $ 316.4 million worth of virtual assets for the North between 2019 and November 2020. story continues below Meanwhile , member nations claimed the North was working with Iran on long-range missile development , "" said to have included the transfer of critical parts , "" per Bloomberg. The outlet notes resumed cooperation "" would likely represent a shortcoming of the Trump administration ' s pressure campaign against both countries. "" Iran has denied the report , however , citing "" false information and fabricated data. "" The report also finds that North Korea ' s economy is "" closer to the brink of collapse than it has been in decades , "" per CNN , as a result of the coronavirus pandemic , sanctions , and floods. On Monday , Kim called on his ruling Workers ' Party to implement measures "" to push forward the economic construction and provide the people with more stable and improved living conditions despite the persistent emergency anti-epidemic situation , "" state news reported , per Reuters. ( Read more North Korea stories. )"
631,"An earthquake strong enough to rouse sleeping residents more than 30 miles from its epicenter struck western Montana early Thursday. The magnitude 5.8 earthquake hit just after midnight about 6 miles southeast of Lincoln , according to the US Geological Survey. There were no immediate reports of injuries. Residents in Lincoln briefly lost power and there was a gas leak in Helena , the National Weather Service in Great Falls says. The Independent Record reports that people felt the quake as far away as Bozeman , Idaho , and Great Falls. story continues below Ray Anderson , 76 , tells the AP that it was the strongest seismic activity he had ever felt while living in Helena , which is about 34 miles away from the quake ' s epicenter. USGS geophysicist Robert Sanders tells the Los Angeles Times that there hasn ' t been a quake this strong in the west of the state for at least 20 years. "" It ' s not impossible , but it is a very rare event , "" he says. Musician John Mayer , a part-time Bozeman resident , took to Twitter to marvel at the event. "" Wow , "" he tweeted. "" Earthquake in Montana. "" ( Read more Montana stories. )"
632,"The 7.2-magnitude earthquake that shook Baja California in April may have set the stage for a far more powerful quake in the not-too-distant future , according to seismologists. The quake revealed several previously unknown fault lines , and triggered big moves in others  including the Big Three of San Andreas , San Jacinto , and Elsinore , the Christian Science Monitor reports. This earthquake was a special event ,  says one researcher. story continues below Computer models suggest the quake will precipitate a large quake along one of those Big Three lines within 3 to 30 years  it  s believed to have caused July  s 5.4-magnitude San Jacinto quake already. It was also a fascinating quake in its own right. The surface rupture did something very weird ,  the seismologist says. It dropped the high mountains of the Sierra Cucapah down. I can  t name another example where a surface rupture is actually lowering the local topography.  ( Read more seismology stories. )"
633,"The family of an inmate who died a slow death from dehydration after water to his cell was cut off has received one of the largest settlements for a jail death in American history. Terrill Thomas , 38 , died in solitary confinement in April 2016 , seven days after water was cut off as punishment for flooding a previous cell at the Milwaukee County Jail , the BBC reports. The $ 6.75 million settlement in a lawsuit brought by his family includes $ 5 million from the county and $ 1.75 million from Armor Correctional Health Services , which provided health care at the jail. "" This settlement reflects not only the profound harm suffered by Mr. Thomas and his family , but also the shocking nature of the defendants  misconduct in shutting off this man  s water and ignoring his obvious signs of distress as he literally died of thirst , "" the family ' s lawyers said in a statement. story continues below Court documents state that on his last day alive , Thomas "" was simply lying naked on his cell floor , barely able to move , severely dehydrated , literally dying of thirst. "" Thomas was arrested in April 2016 after firing two shots inside a casino and stuffing poker chips into his pockets. Relatives say he was having a mental breakdown after failing to take medication for bipolar disorder , and his condition prevented him from communicating with jail staff. Three jail employees were convicted for their roles in the death and criminal charges are pending against Armor , USA Today reports. "" What happened to him was a form of torture , "" says attorney Erik Heipt , per the AP. "" This sort of atrocity should never happen at an American jail. There ' s no excuse for it. "" He says the settlement will be split among Thomas ' six children , including four minors. ( A commander who saw footage of the water being cut off concealed the information from investigators. )"
634,"In the latest battle between China and Google , the company is charging the government with interfering with Gmail. Users are having increasing trouble sending emails and accessing other services linked to the operation , according to Google. Following the Japanese earthquake tsunami disaster , Google set up an application to help people find missing relatives and friends. This service has also been compromised in China , reports the Guardian. "" There is no issue on our side. This is a government blockage carefully designed to look like the problem is with Gmail , "" said a Google spokesman. story continues below Google earlier charged that "" highly targeted and apparently politically motivated attacks "" were being launched by hackers against Gmail users , but did not specifically blame the government. Last month dozens of Chinese activists were busted after an anonymous online call for people to start a Jasmine Revolution in the wake of Mideast unrest. The crackdown came as China ' s president , Hu Jintao , called for an Internet crackdown to prevent unrest. Chinese officials have not commented on Google ' s latest charges. ( Read more China stories. )"
635,"Federal authorities believe they ' re closing in on a convicted child killer who ' s been on the run for 47 years. Lester Eubanks  whose story features in an episode of Netflix ' s Unsolved Mysteries  was convicted in May 1966 of the rape and murder of 14-year-old Mary Ellen Deener of Mansfield , Ohio , who ' d been searching for change for a laundromat when she disappeared on Nov. 14 , 1965. Eubanks grabbed Mary Ellen from a sidewalk , dragged her behind a house , raped her , and shot her twice , though , per the Mansfield News Journal , she didn ' t immediately die. Later , he would return to the scene to fatally smash Mary Ellen in the head with a brick. He received a death sentence that was commuted to life in prison in 1972 , per USA Today. story continues below But he escaped from custody the following year while Christmas shopping unescorted in Columbus  a reward for good behavior , per Fox News. Luckily , "" I feel we ' re getting closer , "" Brian Fitzgibbon of the US Marshals Service told USA Today on Monday , noting tips are flooding in. Previous tips suggested Eubanks might be in Michigan and California. Fitzgibbon said "" there ' s nothing putting him in a place  We ' re looking for any information to his life on the run or the history of his life on the run. "" Eubanks was described as 5 ' 11 "" and 175 pounds , with black hair and brown eyes in 1973. Now 76 , his story features in the "" Death Row Fugitives "" episode of Unsolved Mysteries , which began airing Tuesday. ( Read more escaped criminal stories. )"
636,"Michelangelo ' s David has two bum ankles  and surgery isn ' t helping the masterpiece. Despite plastering over micro-fractures that have appeared over the years , David ' s ankles are so bad researchers fear the marble Golaith-slayer could soon collapse under his own massive 5.5-ton weight , reports the BBC by way of Italy ' s La Repubblica. After exposing replicas to pressures stronger than the force of gravity , researchers found the statue ' s ankles are just too thin to support it. Not helping matters ? Michelangelo picked a less-than-stellar quality marble , and carved David in an off-center pose. There also appears to be damage in the tree stump behind David ' s right leg , which bears the brunt of his weight. story continues below So what ' s to be done ? Well , some suggest moving the 17-foot structure away from the city of Florence , which has a recorded history of 127 minor earthquakes , or at least moving it to an earthquake-proof room , reports La Gazetta del Sud. As for those who warned that a train line built nearby a few years ago would cause David to collapse , researchers say it was more likely the three centuries standing at a dangerous , forward-leaning position in Florence ' s main square that did the damage. ( Read more Michelangelo stories. )"
637,"A fire at a Houston mosque is suspicious , according to an official from the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco , and Firearms. The two-alarm fire was reported Friday afternoon at the Islamic Society of Greater Houston. It caused major damage to the building but no one was injured. Special Agent Nicole Strong with the ATF ' s Houston Field Division says the blaze had "" multiple points of origin , "" which is an indicator that a fire accelerant may have been used. story continues below Members of the mosque say they hope it wasn ' t arson , but they don ' t know what else could have caused a fire in the building , which is well-maintained and only a few years old. "" It ' s very hard to believe it was an accident , "" the man who opens it for prayer every morning tells the Houston Chronicle. The executive director for the Houston chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations has called on law enforcement to investigate , citing a recent spike in vandalism to mosques that have prompted hate crime investigations. ( A California man is facing a hate crime charge in connection with a mosque fire earlier this month. )"
638,"The search for missing University of Pennsylvania sophomore Blaze Bernstein came to a grim end when the 19-year-old ' s body was found in a park near his parents ' home , having apparently been exposed by this week ' s rainstorms , police in California say. The Orange County Sheriff ' s Department has not disclosed a cause of death or the condition of the body , but they say the case is now a homicide investigation , the Philadelphia Inquirer reports. The park , where a friend says he last saw Bernstein the night of Jan. 2 , is around a 10-minute walk from his parents ' home in Lake Forest. Investigators "" are actively following multiple leads , but no suspect is in custody , "" the sheriff ' s office said. Police say they believe Bernstein , who was in California for winter break , was killed the night he disappeared. story continues below "" Our family is devastated , "" father Gideon Bernstein said , per the AP , thanking the community for supporting the search effort. A high-school classmate told investigators that after they drove to Borrego Park on Jan. 2 , apparently to meet a third classmate , Bernstein walked into the park by himself and did not return. According to a search warrant affidavit seen by the OCRegister , when police spoke to the friend again on Jan. 4 , he was "" visibly shaking. "" He told police that scratches and abrasions on his hands were from a "" fight club "" he was involved in , and that he had dirt under his fingernails because he fell in mud during a sparring session. The friend told police that he went to his girlfriend ' s home after leaving Bernstein in the park , though he said he couldn ' t remember her last name or her address , the affidavit states. ( Read more California stories. )"
639,"Everyone kind of knew this was coming , but many are still sweating at the news. Data for 2016 has been released , and it ' s official that last year was the hottest year on record , following 2014 and 2015 in holding this status , the Guardian reports. NASA and NOAA released their year-end stats along with the UK ' s Met Office , and 2016 narrowly edged out 2015 as the year with the highest globally averaged temperature since such measurements began in 1880. The average temperature across the planet ' s land masses and oceans came in at 58.69 degrees Fahrenheit , which was what USA Today calls a "" whopping 1.69 degrees above average ""  and the paper notes that while an almost-2-degree difference sounds small , records in climate science are often surpassed in tenths or hundredths of degrees. "" Nature is sending a distress call , "" a World Wildlife Fund spokesman says. story continues below Sixteen of the past 17 hottest years have been since the turn of this century , and Penn State climate scientist Michael Mann stresses that humans are indeed to blame , telling the Guardian "" the effect of human activity on our climate is no longer subtle. "" Mann says "" about 75 % of the warmth "" last year was people-driven , per the New York Times , and that its impacts  including droughts , wildfires , floods , and other extreme-weather phenomena  are obvious. Some scientists are also turning a wary eye to the incoming Trump administration in the wake of this news , with the policy director of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment noting that climate change-denying politicians "" will be willfully turning a blind eye to rising risks "" for everyone. ( Read more global warming stories. )"
640,"It won ' t sound chilly to the people of Rapid City , South Dakota , but it does to Angelenos. For the first time since records began 132 years ago , the temperature in downtown Los Angeles never got as high as 70 degrees in all of February. Overall , it was the eighth-coldest February for the city on record , the National Weather Service told the Los Angeles Times. The average high for the month was 61 degrees , 7 degrees below the historical average. One storm after another , and a lack of offshore flows , the Weather Service said , kept it cool. Temperatures have been rising for years there , which might make it seem colder now. "" We have already internalized a lot of the warming that ' s occurred , "" a UCLA climate scientist said. He said the future probably will hold more of the same : swings between severe winter rainstorms and serious drought. story continues below Other parts of the country set records of their own. Low temperatures in the North and West continental US kept the national temperature about 3.5 degrees below average , a meteorologist said. Eau Claire , Wisconsin , posted its snowiest month on record  53.7 inches , USA Today reports. Minneapolis and Des Moines had historic snow , too. A Montana newspaper called it a "" miserable February. "" In much of the South , the issue was rain. Nashville and Knoxville had their wettest February ; "" there were no areas of Knoxville that weren ' t affected "" by flooding , an official said. In Florida , Key West and Gainesville had record heat. The cheeriest development is that the US Drought Monitor reports the smallest portion of the lower 48 is in drought conditions since summer 2017  about 11 percent. ( A teenager profited from Seattle ' s snow. )"
641,"Police in Arkansas are investigating how day care workers could have left a 5-year-old boy in a sweltering van for hours , NBC News reports. Christopher Gardner Jr. was found unresponsive , strapped into a booster seat at 3 : 30pm on Monday. That was more than eight hours after the van had arrived at Ascent Children ' s Health Services , per WMC , and only as it was time to drive the kids home. Administrators at the day care center for special needs children fired four workers Wednesday for failing to follow procedures , reports CNN. "" There are simply no words to express the overwhelming sadness we feel at the death of this child , "" Ascent CEO Dan Sullivan says in a statement. "" We are heartbroken. "" Workers are required to walk to the back of the van and check each seat , and then verify the van ' s roster with a class attendance sheet to ensure all the kids are accounted for , reports ABC News. story continues below West Memphis police tell CNN that temperatures in the parking lot were 91 degrees on Monday when they arrived , and that Christopher may have been asleep when the van arrived at the facility. They say the temperature inside a nearby sealed van was measured at 141 degrees , notes NBC. "" I just need some answers , "" says Christopher ' s mother , Ashley Smith , per ABC. "" I just want justice for my son. "" Great-grandmother Carrie Smith tells WMC that Christopher "" suffered in that van. "" She says they had a routine when Christopher came home each day. "" When he got off the van he ' d say , ' Granny , have you got me a cookie today? ' "" ( Two toddlers died last week after being left overnight in a hot car. )"
642,"In the midst of a historic drought , Nestle bottled approximately 68,000 gallons of water from California ' s San Bernardino National Forest every day last year. It paid only an annual fee of $ 524 for the privilege. Oh , and its permit to do so expired 27 years ago. The Desert Sun reports three environmental groups sued the US Forest Service Tuesday for allowing Nestle to continue drawing water without a valid permit. "" It  s this whole privatization of public resources and profiteering off the stuff that all of us are supposed to own collectively ,  says the executive director of the Courage Campaign Institute , one of the groups suing the Forest Service. The environmental groups don ' t believe Nestle ' s activities would be allowed if the permit  issued in 1978  had been forced to go through a modern environmental review process , according to the Los Angeles Times. story continues below The Forest Service claims it hasn ' t reviewed Nestle ' s old permit because it ' s been busy with other things and lacks the funding , the Sun reports. But it did let Nestle rebuild a damaged pipeline in 2003. The official who allowed that has since retired from the Forest Service to join Nestle as a paid consultant. The Forest Service announced in August that it would be starting the renewal process for Nestle ' s permit , but it ' s letting Nestle use the old permit in the meantime and has given no firm date for when the renewal process will actually take place. According to the Times , environmentalists claim Nestle ' s removal of water from the San Bernardino National Forest is threatening the habitats of birds , fish , snakes , and frogs. Nestle has five bottling plants in California and uses about 705 million gallons of the state ' s water per year. ( Read more water stories. )"
643,"Not two months after he and his crew were attacked while covering the protests in Egypt , Anderson Cooper once again put himself in ( or near ) harm  s way , this time to cover the Japan earthquake. While reporting on the situation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant , Cooper received word of the second explosion , and promptly interrupted his interview with a nuclear expert to ask his crew how far they were from the plant and which direction the wind was blowing. He then asked the nuclear expert how likely it would be for Japanese authorities to expand the evacuation zone  then quickly interrupted again to clarify , The subtext here is , should I get out of here ?  Watch the video , via Mediaite , in the gallery or click for more on Japan. ( Read more Anderson Cooper stories. )"
644,"Even after two terrorist attacks and a driver ' s deadly rampage through Times Square , New York City is on track to smash its modern-era low for homicides in a year. Through Dec. 17 , the city of 8.5 million people , once America ' s murder capital , had recorded 278 killings. That puts it on pace to end this year with killings down 14 % from last year , and well below the 333 in 2014 , which was the year with the fewest homicides since the city began keeping accurate crime statistics in 1963 , per the AP. Those numbers mean a person ' s odds of getting killed in New York City this year were about the same as they were last year in Wyoming , Montana , and South Dakota. Crime has been dropping for many years in New York , but 2017 saw substantial drops even in places like Brooklyn ' s 75th Precinct , once among the nation ' s most violent places. story continues below "" I ' ve lived here all my life , "" says a local construction worker. "" It ' s a different world now. "" There were 126 killings in the 75th Precinct in 1993 ; this year , there have been 11. The stats stand in sharp contrast to the picture of NYC painted by President Trump on the campaign trail , when he said murders were up because the city ' s liberal mayor was coddling illegal immigrants and abandoning the stop-and-frisk of predominantly innocent black and Hispanic men. "" I don ' t think [ these numbers are ] something that can be ignored , "" Police Commissioner James O ' Neill says. Some criminologists say a move away from heavy-handed policing may have helped lower crime , though researchers also attribute the NYPD ' s success to factors such as a flood of wealthier people into NYC and a high employment rate. ( Read more New York City stories. )"
645,"There was no nuance , no hedging in President Biden ' s answer Friday when he was asked if he had anything to say to social media companies in the face of the worsening pandemic. "" They ' re killing people , "" Biden said. He added , "" The only pandemic we have is among the unvaccinated "" ; cases are climbing fastest in places where the fewest people have been vaccinated against the illness. The White House is delivering the message that health misinformation on Facebook , Twitter , YouTube , Instagram and other sites is doing harm. Facebook cites its truthful information about vaccines and COVID-19 , as well as its vaccine finder , in arguing that the site is helping to save lives. Kara Swisher writes in an opinion piece in the New York Times that there ' s a case to be made for Biden ' s blunt accusation. story continues below "" The truth is that Facebook serves as a gateway to both , "" Swisher writes , "" presenting clearly solid information about COVID , as well as a place where an enormous flood of lies about it has overwhelmed the same zone  and for a much longer time. "" Facebook can ' t be blamed for former President Trump voicing some of that misinformation , Swisher says , but the social media sites waited too long to do anything about it. Fox News deserves blame , too , as do the people who decided not to be vaccinated without doing enough to check the facts themselves. But she concedes , "" the ability to resist social media juggernauts pales in comparison to the tremendous power of these platforms to amplify bad information. "" Facebook isn ' t exactly killing people because its technology is being used to spread misinformation , Swisher writes , but it is the reason that lies have such reach. You can read the full piece here. ( Read more social media stories. )"
646,"Four years ago , a chemistry professor got a text from her grad student : If I ' m not back in a week , cut me from the doctoral program. Charlotta Turner called him right away : "" He was very sad and crying ,  the 48-year-old prof at Lund University in Sweden tells NBC News. "" I could hear that the situation was hopeless and they had to flee. "" The student , Firas Jumaah , was visiting his native Iraq to help family members during a brutal 2014 ISIS attack targeting Yazidis  a religious minority that includes his family. The terror group had just enslaved and massacred Yazidis by the thousand in nearby Sinjar. Now Jumaah and family were planning to flee to the mountains. "" I had no hope at all , "" says Jumaah , per the Local. "" I was desperate. "" story continues below But Turner took action. She spoke to Lund University ' s then-security chief , who contacted a company that sent mercenaries into northern Iraq. Only days later , four armed mercs on two Landcruisers blazed into the place where Jumaah was hiding , and rushed him to Erbil Airport with his wife and two young kids. "" I have never felt so privileged , so VIP , "" he says. "" But at the same time I felt like a coward as I left my mother and sisters behind me. "" Seeing his colleagues back in Sweden , he was speechless : "" I just cried , "" he says. Yet Jumaah finished his PhD and found work at a Malmo pharmaceuticals company , and his family survived. The bill : roughly 60,000 kroner ( $ 6,613 ) , which his family has nearly finished paying. If they told me to pay 200,000 kronor , I would ,  says Jumaah. ( The UN is finding fresh ISIS horrors. )"
647,"Even though we can ' t feel it , the Earth is humming all the time. "" If you played it at 10,000 times the speed , you could hear ' white noise ' like an old TV set between channels , "" Fabrice Ardhuin , an oceanographer in France , tells the Huffington Post. Experts discovered the planet ' s very low vibrations in the late 1990s , and now researchers may be able to explain them , Live Science reports. According to Ardhuin ' s team , the hum is a result of ocean waves. Waves don ' t just occur at the ocean ' s surface , Live Science explains : They can reach to the bottom of the ocean. There , they move along a "" bumpy "" sea floor , creating pressure that leads to the Earth oscillating , the American Geophysical Union reports. story continues below That could explain the so-called "" microseismic "" waves behind the hum  at least those lasting from 13 to 300 seconds , according to researchers ' models. Shorter microseismic waves could be the result of waves crashing into each other. The wave theory isn ' t entirely new , Live Science notes , but the findings offer a fuller explanation of what could be happening. "" I think ( the results are ) a relief to the seismologists , "" says the oceanographer. "" Now we know where this ringing comes from , and the next question is : What can we do with it ? "" One possibility : The research could help experts spot earthquakes occurring a long distance away , AGU notes. ( In other recent geological finds , it seems the Earth ' s core has a core of its own. )"
648,"It was already one of the most iconic visuals of California ' s historic drought , and things have only gotten worse. Gizmodo reports few people  even in California  were aware of the severity of the ongoing drought when it was officially declared in 2012. That changed in 2014 when before and after photos of Folsom Lake went viral. "" The first photo : A seemingly infinite deep blue pool , a white blur of water gushing over the spillway , "" Gizmodo describes. "" The second photo : A dusty rock-strewn landscape that was more Mars than California. "" On Sunday , the Northern California lake  which supplies drinking water to half a million people  hit a record low of 140,410 acre feet , according to CBS Sacramento. The previous low of 140,600 was set in 1977. story continues below The lake can hold 975,000 acre feet when full , but it ' s now approaching the 100,000 acre feet "" dead zone , "" at which point it would be too low to reach intake pipes , affecting water for three cities. The water level dropped 3 feet in September alone , and even this winter ' s much ballyhooed El Nio is unlikely to solve the problem. "" We may have a very wet winter , but if we don  t have dramatic snowfall and so forth we  ve got to still be conscious we  re still living through this drought , "" a local politician tells CBS. Officials are proposing a new reservoir nearby to help store water. And according to Gizmodo , the state is installing emergency pumps to avoid the "" dead zone. "" ( Listen carefully , and you can hear the drought. )"
649,""" We ' re using our groundwater resources too fast  faster than they ' re being renewed , "" Dr. Tom Gleeson says in a University of Victoria press release. Gleeson , along with fellow researchers , published the most accurate map of Earth ' s groundwater supply to date on Monday in Nature Geoscience. The study found there is about 14.3 million cubic miles of groundwater left on Earth. But that ' s not as encouraging as it sounds , according to Reuters , because no more than 6 % of it is renewable within a human lifetime. "" That ' s never been known before , "" says Gleeson , who adds that people are going to need to manage that resource better as water demands grow amid ongoing drought. "" Groundwater can and should be thought of as a very useful buffer to climate extremes , "" he says. "" It ' s a valuable and strategic resource for mitigating the extreme impacts of climate. "" story continues below The amount of groundwater less than 50 years old is enough to cover every continent with approximately 10 feet of water , according to the study. But while that young groundwater is more quickly replenished , it ' s also more easily polluted by people and impacted by climate change , Reuters reports. The rest of Earth ' s groundwater  which can be millions of years old  is much deeper underground and can be extremely salty and contain harmful elements , according to the press release. The next step is to figure out how dire the situation is. "" Since we now know how much groundwater is being depleted and how much there is , we will be able to estimate how long until we run out , "" Gleeson says. ( But at least we might have more helium left that we thought. )"
650,"The charge of disorderly conduct can cover many things  including a gender reveal stunt that shook houses more than 20 miles away. New Hampshire man Anthony Spinelli was charged Monday in connection with the explosion last month in a quarry near the Massachusetts border , the Union-Leader reports. Nobody was injured in the blast , which involved 80 pounds of Tannerite , an explosive used for firearms targets , mixed with blue chalk. Police say Spinelli , who organized the party , was charged with disorderly conduct because he caused public alarm , reports CBS Boston. Spinelli turned himself in and cooperated with investigators , police say. Residents said they thought the blast was an earthquake , though police say it didn ' t cause any property damage. ( Read more gender reveal party stories. )"
651,"Matt Damon fans , rejoice : The heartthrob has agreed to star in an anti-fracking movie called The Promised Land , the Huffington Post reports. Damon and actor John Krasinski , the film ' s co-writers , will star as rival executives involved in drilling for natural gas in a small town. Gus Van Sant is slated to direct , with Frances McDormand on board and possibly Hal Holbrook , who would play an engineer opposing Damon ' s corporate takeover of the town. story continues below Fracking has inspired two other films , the documentary Gasland and a pro-fracking movie called FrackNation that ' s currently underway , reports Politico. We want to make FrackNation because we want the truth about fracking to be told ,  the filmmakers write. "" It ' s likely that PROMISED LAND will increase unfounded concerns about fracking.  Environmentalists are concerned , however , because fracking blasts hazardous chemicals into the ground and has been linked to earthquakes. ( For more on Damon ' s political side , check out his gutsy defense of teachers. )"
652,"A ride at a German theme park was scuttled this week over objections it resembled flying swastikas , the New York Times reports. Called Eagle ' s Flight , the attraction had two sets of four cars , each joined at right angles , which some said resembled the infamous Nazi symbol. "" First of all , I would like to emphasize that I would like to apologize ... to all persons who feel disturbed and insulted by our design , "" said Rdiger Braun , owner of the theme park in the southern town of Lffingen , per Deutsche Welle. He said the ride will be remade into three-car sets. "" Then we will have this problem under control. "" story continues below The ride drew a mix of outrage and tasteless jokes on social media earlier this month. "" Goebbels approves , "" wrote one Reddit user. But Germany , which forbids Nazi symbols in public , is experiencing a tense moment after taking in over a million migrants and seeing a rise in anti-Semitic crime. In June , a center-right politician was assassinated , apparently by far-right extremists. "" Why are the people of my country not flooding to the streets in disgust ? "" a columnist asked , per the Guardian. Into this fray came the theme park ride , which was promoted innocently in an Aug. 2 Facebook post. "" Let yourself be surprised ! "" wrote park management. ( Read more Germany stories. )"
653,"While some firefighting crews are working 72-hour shifts to battle the massive blazes now ravaging California , opportunists are taking advantage of both those on the front lines and residents affected by the fires. "" Absolutely disgusting behavior , "" "" saddening , "" and "" sickening "" is how fire officials are describing one incident reported by Cal Fire over the weekend , in which a Santa Cruz fire ground commander returned to his work truck ( which was parked in an evacuation zone ) after battling the CZU Lightning Complex Fire and found his wallet was gone , per KRON4. Later on , he discovered more bad news : Someone had taken all the money out of his bank account. An investigation into the incident is ongoing by the sheriff ' s office. story continues below "" I can ' t believe someone would have the nerve to break into a firefighter ' s vehicle or enter their vehicle to steal something from them when they ' re there to protect the community , "" Chris Clark , chief deputy with the Santa Cruz Sheriff ' s Office , tells the Chronicle. "" It honestly blows me away. "" The unlucky firefighter isn ' t the only recent theft victim. KTLA reports that at least five people have been arrested for looting , targeting the abandoned homes of residents forced to evacuate. And there ' s yet another scam making the rounds , Clark warns : He tells KSBW that imposters are calling local residents claiming to be reps from utilities , law enforcement , or other agencies , asking residents to pay money they owe. "" If you get a call from any sort of official source , if you question the validity of it  and you should question the validity of those calls  contact the agency directly , "" he says. ( Read more California wildfires stories. )"
654,"A magnitude 6.5 earthquake hit Northern California on Thursday morning. The quake , which was initially reported at 6.8 , hit about 100 miles west of Ferndale at 6 : 50am local time , per USGS , meaning it was centered in the Pacific Ocean at a depth of 6.2 miles. ( Ferndale is about 20 miles south of Eureka and 260 miles north of San Francisco. ) There are no reports yet of injuries or damage. The National Tsunami Center is not reporting any danger of tsunamis at this point , CBS San Francisco reports. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
655,"Another sign of the severity of California ' s drought : Farmers who hold some of the oldest and thus strongest water rights in the state have agreed to voluntarily cut their water use by 25 % this season. The move by the farmers in the delta of the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers is "" unprecedented , "" reports the Los Angeles Times. It affects those with "" riparian rights , "" explains the paper , meaning farmers whose land has direct access to a stream. Some of those rights go back 100 years. story continues below The state accepted the offer today , which the farmers made because they feared the government would impose even stricter reductions. The agreement heads off what likely would have been a long , costly legal fight , reports the Sacramento Bee. Consumers everywhere can expect to feel at least some impact of the drought in food prices , and the New York Times provides a graphic on how much water is used to make a typical week ' s serving of crops from avocados ( 4.1 gallons ) to bread ( 6.4 gallons ) to mandarins ( 42.5 gallons ) . Meanwhile , drought-shaming is now a thing. ( Read more drought stories. )"
656,"Indiana Rep. Andre Carson is taking a lot of heat today , after comments he made accusing the Tea Party of being racist were posted on The Blaze ( see video ) . This is the effort that we  re seeing of Jim Crow ,  Carson declared at a Congressional Black Caucus event last week. Some of these folks in Congress would love to see us as second-class citizens. Some of them in Congress right now of this Tea Party movement would love to see you and me ... hanging on a tree.  story continues below Right-wing blogs like Hot Air cried foul. Rep. Allen West told Fox News that invoking lynching was reprehensible  and said it was making him reconsider his Congressional Black Caucus membership. But a Carson spokesman tells Politico he stands by the comments. The congressman used strong language because the Tea Party agenda jeopardizes our most vulnerable and leaves them without the ability to improve their economic standing ,  he said. ( Read more Andre Carson stories. )"
657,"California is embroiled in a water crisis that ' s right out of Chinatown. In the midst of a devastating drought , state officials cut off water to thousands of acres of Central Valley farmland  in part to protect smelt fish from swimming into pumps and going extinct. Not surprisingly , farmers and conservatives have been stewing since water supplied by the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta was reduced in 2007. "" This is a classic tale of activist government run amok  and , too , of the peculiarly suicidal instincts that rich and educated societies exhibit when they reach maturity , "" writes Charles Cooke in a biting National Review piece that calls environmentalism a "" religion. "" story continues below Governor Jerry Brown took action last month by declaring a drought emergency , giving himself the option of sending water to farmers and endangering the smelt , KCET reports. But it ' s not all about fish : The delta also needs to pump fresh water into the Pacific ( and not to farmers ) to keep seawater from intruding and ruining the delta ' s water supply , says the LA Times editorial board. Seeking a workaround , Brown wants to spend $ 15 billion on two 30-mile water tunnels that would run under the delta and supply farmland , reports Bloomberg. Left-wing critics ( see Indybay ) are slamming him for that plan as well  which leaves things where , exactly ? "" We ' re looking at just a huge amount of land going unplanted , "" a water-district rep tells the San Francisco Chronicle. "" And I don ' t think we ' ve seen the full effect of it yet. "" ( Read more California stories. )"
658,"The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released its landmark climate report last week , and a dire report it was. For Heather Hansman , the "" biggest takeaway "" from that report is that time has run out and we can no longer be complacent  "" anything we can do now ... will make the future less brutal. "" One big thing we can do , she writes in her latest opinion piece for Outside : Stop building campfires. "" We have to give up things we like now to avoid worse losses later , "" Hansman writes. "" And if we don ' t , the sacrifices will continue to mount. "" Hansman notes that despite campfire bans in such states as Washington , people continue to light them ( as well as cigarettes and fireworks ) , sparking out-of-control wildfires that wreak havoc on the landscape. Plus , even before groups set up camp and start stacking wood for their blaze , we ' ve primed the land to burn by creating "" hotter , drier , more dangerous conditions "" through fossil fuel use and "" the ways we use and manage land. "" story continues below Hansman relays her own story of a recent camping trip in Washington ' s Yakima River Canyon in which she and her group , which didn ' t build a campfire , could smell another group ' s fire despite a ban in place. They learned later that a fire likely started by a spark from someone ' s car caused a blaze that torched 5,000 acres in four hours. "" I am angry and frustrated and grieving , "" Hansman writes. "" I feel ineffective and hamstrung. Pissed at the government , at the gas companies , at the bros throwing beanbags by a fire three campsites over. "" The way to alleviate those feelings , she notes , is to take action , and if that means ditching campfires , so be it. "" I love sitting around a campfire , telling stories and poking flames , but going without a fire isn ' t such a huge sacrifice , "" she writes. "" We get to choose if we want to sit by a campfire now or be able to sit by smoke-free rivers in future summers. The window of action is shrinking fast. "" Read more of her piece here. ( Read more fires stories. )"
659,"Leaving Fido to fend for himself outside during a hurricane could soon be a crime in Florida. Senate Bill 1738 , which passed the state Senate Agricultural Committee with no opposition last month , makes it a first-degree misdemeanor to leave a dog restrained outside and unattended during a natural disaster or man-made disaster , the Weather Network reports. Offenders could face a $ 5,000 fine or up to a year in prison. Animal welfare officials say dozens of dogs were left tethered outside when Hurricane Irma hit the state in 2017. Many of them did not survive the storm. Some counties , including Palm Beach , where at least 49 dogs were rescued after being left outside during Hurricane Irma , already have similar laws , reports NBC. story continues below Paula Whiteamire , who runs Amazing Grace Bully Rescue , tells ABC 4 that the bill is long overdue. "" The amount of people who leave their animals out in storms open on chains during hurricanes , tornadoes , whatever  and the destruction that occurs ; even if the dog doesn ' t die , what it has to live with afterwards , "" she says. "" I think the people need to be held accountable for doing that kind of thing. "" Authorities say leaving dogs outside during natural disasters is not only cruel , it diverts valuable resources away from other rescue missions. If the bill , sponsored by Republican state Sen. Joe Gruters , passes the legislature , it will take effect July 1. ( After Hurricane Florence , this dog survived for a week on a floating couch in a flooded house. )"
660,"The survivor of a Hawaii shark attack has had run-ins with some of nature ' s fiercest predators before. Specifically , Dylan McWilliams has previously suffered bites from both a bear and a venomous snake , according to the Honolulu Star-Advertiser. The 20-year-old was reportedly bitten by a 6- to 8-foot tiger shark on Thursday in the waters off Kauai while treating himself to some much-deserved boogie boarding after days of helping out the island ' s victims of recent historic flooding. Just months earlier , McWilliams had to get nine staples in his neck after he was woken up by an angry 280-pound black bear while sleeping outdoors at a Colorado summer camp. story continues below That shocking encounter alone was enough to land McWilliams in national news  he told People he had to fight off the bear as it dragged him some 12 feet. McWilliams said he used a similar tactic with the shark , which he gave a swift kick before swimming for his life back to shore. However , it ' s probably for the best that McWilliams didn ' t try that with the pygmy faded rattlesnake that bit him three years ago while on a hike in Utah. McWilliams walked away from what was luckily just a "" dry bite , "" with only enough venom to make him sick for a couple days. So what ' s this guy ' s deal with run-ins and terrifying animals ? I  m either really lucky or really unlucky , "" he told the Star-Advertiser. ( Read more shark attack stories. )"
661,"A new twist in the mystery of Craig Wright and Satoshi Nakamoto , the alias of the creator of bitcoin. There was much hullabaloo in May 2016 , when Wright  whom Wired had months earlier identified as likely being Nakamoto  said he was indeed the man behind the curtain. But just days later the Australian said he didn ' t have the "" courage "" to share the iron-clad proof he said he had. On Tuesday , a US district court in Florida ordered Wright to part with half of the bitcoin he possesses , which the Guardian reports is said to be worth billions. Bloomberg gets more specific , reporting that would come to 410,000 bitcoins , which were each valued at $ 10,162 Tuesday ; that ' s $ 4.16 billion. Judge Bruce Reinhart said it wasn ' t the court ' s job to establish whether Wright is Nakamoto or how much bitcoin he has ; it needed to rule on whether David Kleiman ' s estate had the rights to part of Wright ' s haul. Reinhart found it did. story continues below Kleiman ' s estate argued that the programmer helped Wright create the cryptocurrency from 2009 to his 2013 death , and that it should get a portion of the bitcoin the two mined together. Reinhart awarded it half , along with half of Wright ' s intellectual property from that period. Wright said he couldn ' t comply because he can ' t access his bitcoins. The story he told the court : Realizing his creation had turned ugly in that it was being used by criminals , he took his bitcoin at that point and put it into an encrypted file whose key was divvied into slices. Using a blind trust , Kleiman gave the slices to people. A bonded courier is due to deliver Wright a key in January , he says , at which point he can decrypt the file. Reinhart ' s take : "" Dr. Wright  s demeanor did not impress me as someone who was telling the truth. "" It ' s not totally case closed , reports Coindesk. "" There are still procedural issues , including collection , that need to be hammered out. However , the substantive issues have been decided and this points to an end of a potentially lengthy trial , "" though Wright can appeal. Bloomberg reported Tuesday that Wright had sounded an alarm , saying the market could be flooded with bitcoin due to the ruling. It noted , however , that "" Investors seem to be taking the alert in stride , with bitcoin little changed at about $ 10,150. "" ( Read more bitcoin stories. )"
662,"NASA just started the biggest fire in outer space ever intentionally set  all in the name of safety , Space.com reports. The Spacecraft Fire Experiment , aka Saffire-1 , took place Tuesday inside an unmanned Cygnus cargo vessel after it left the International Space Station , with what a press release describes as a 16-inch-by-37-inch cotton-fiberglass cloth remotely set ablaze so scientists could then measure how the fire outside of Earth ' s atmosphere affected oxygen use in the craft , how quickly the flame grew , and other factors so that future missions could be made safer. "" Our #Saffire experiment traveled 1,000 miles in space while burning on #Cygnus , "" NASA ' s Glenn Research Center tweeted Tuesday , adding it would start releasing images from the fire , said to be capable of reaching temps as high as 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit , this week as they ' re beamed back to ground controllers. The largest intentional fire sparked before this was the size of an index card  providing valuable info , but not enough to truly see the consequences of a real in-space blaze. story continues below "" To really understand fire , you ' ve gotta look at a more realistic size , "" a Saffire-1 investigator said during a March press call , Gizmodo reported then. "" One of the big questions in fire safety ... is how rapidly are conditions in a ... spacecraft going to get bad for inhabitants. "" It was a challenge to even start these experiments , as most engineers were unwilling to risk trashing the spacecraft they had worked so long on , the Washington Post notes. "" We tried for years , trying to find a vehicle and a circumstance where this would work , "" the lead Saffire investigator said in a video posted June 6 on YouTube. "" Initially they ' d get a ' not on my spacecraft ' reaction. "" The Cygnus cargo vessel compromise was eventually reached , and Gizmodo notes NASA made sure to start the fire far away from the ISS , so already anxious-astronauts hanging out there wouldn ' t get freaked out seeing the fire so close to their perilous perch. Two more space-fire flights  Saffire-2 and Saffire-3  are planned for later this year. ( In other NASA news : a scientist who says he can get humans to Mars in a month. )"
663,"Walking to higher ground at a quick pace could be the key to survival for thousands of Americans if a large tsunami were to hit the Pacific Northwest , a new study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences finds. The study focused on the high-risk communities within a 700-mile Northern California-to-Washington stretch of coastline that would be affected by a Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake. Researchers found that nearly 5,600 additional residents  or another 6 % of the population  would make it to safety in time if they walked to higher ground at a speed of 3.4mph rather than 2.5mph. At 2.5mph , 21,562 residents would be at risk , PhysOrg reports ; the researchers put the population of the communities that could be affected by a CSZ quake at 94,872. story continues below Researchers noted that the first tsunami wave from a CSZ quake would likely hit California and Oregon within 15 minutes. "" Just by getting people to move faster , you can save thousands of lives , "" lead author Nathan Wood tells the Seattle Times. But others are pretty much doomed , per the Times , which reports that the study shows many of those living in Ocean Shores , Wash. , and Seaside , Ore. , wouldn ' t be able to evacuate in time even at the faster speed. In these cases , the research team suggests building strong-walled vertical evacuation centers and launching emergency preparedness campaigns. ( Some towns are already heeding this advice. ) The Pacific Northwest Seismic Network notes that the CSZ has produced 9.0-magnitude quakes in the past and tends to release a quake at intervals of 400 to 600 years ; its last major one was in 1700. ( Evidence of a "" monster "" tsunami was recently found in Hawaii. )"
664,"The Egyptian navy yesterday captured three scuba divers who were attempting to cut an undersea Internet cable , the AP reports. The military posted a photo of the three men , who were caught on a fishing boat near Alexandria in the Mediterranean Sea ; it did not further have details on who they were or why they would have wanted to cut the cable. As ITWorld explains , the cable in question is the South East Asia-Middle East-West Europe 4 ( aka SMW4 ) , a 12,500-mile long cable that runs from France to Singapore and touches Thailand , India , Italy , and other countries along the way. story continues below ITWorld spoke with a research engineer with Renesys , a company that analyzes global Internet use , who says the SMW4 cable ceased operations at 6 : 20am GMT yesterday. His company observed outages in Kenya , Sudan , Tanzania , Uganda , and Saudi Arabia. If it was indeed an act of sabotage ( ships and earthquakes have also been known to break cables ) , that ' s "" just staggering , "" he says. Egypt Independent reports that the cut cable caused Internet services to drop 60 % , but Telecom Egypt says service will be restored completely today. The Middle East has had problems with cut cables before. ( Read more Internet stories. )"
665,"Moving at a pace "" roughly twice the speed of a garden snail , "" the plume of nuclear radiation created by the Fukushima disaster has finally crossed the Pacific Ocean and arrived off the West Cost of the US , the Statesman Journal reports. Following a massive earthquake and tsunami in 2011 , contaminated water escaped Japan ' s Fukushima nuclear plant into the ocean. More radiation joined the plume when it fell from the sky. Now researchers say a seawater sample taken in Oregon shows traces of Cesium-134. It ' s the first time Cesium-134 , which could only have come from Fukushima , has been found in US waters. Greater levels of Cesium-134 and Cesium-137  already present in the water following nuclear testing decades ago  are expected to arrive with the bulk of the plume in the near future. story continues below However , scientists say that even at those levels there will be no danger to humans or the environment. "" To put it in context , if you were to swim everyday for six hours a day in those waters for a year , that additional radiation from the addressed cesium from Japan ... is 1,000 times smaller than one dental X-ray , "" Ken Buesseler of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute tells USA Today. Still , scientists can use this data to better track ocean currents and come up with more accurate models for future , potentially worse , nuclear disasters. Meanwhile , Cesium-134 from Fukushima has also been detected in a Canadian salmon for the first time. Fortunately , the level found in the salmon is more than 1,000 times less than what Canada considers dangerous. ( Read more Fukushima Dai-ichi stories. )"
666,"After Halloween ' s "" zombie comet , "" there will be another celestial visitor on Christmas Eve , and Asteroid 163899 is about as festive as a space rock can get , which is not at all. The object  also known as 2003 SD220  will be at its closest on Dec. 24 , when it will be around 6.8 million miles away , almost 30 times the distance from the Earth to the moon , reports Popular Mechanics. The asteroid is a big one , with an estimated length of 1.25 miles , but NASA says there is zero risk of it hitting our planet anytime in the next 200 years , reports EarthSky , which notes that claims that this asteroid  or any asteroid  will cause earthquakes are "" misleading and incorrect. "" ( Christmas Day will have the first "" Full Cold Moon "" in many years. )"
667,"As if California doesn ' t have enough water problems. Now scientists say the Sierra Nevada snowpack  which gives the state nearly a third of its surface water  is at a shocking 500-year low , the Guardian reports. That means California , now in its fourth year of drought , can ' t rely as much on winter snow accumulation in the mountains to fill streams and reservoirs during the hot summers. "" It was unprecedented , "" says Valerie Trouet , who led the study published in Nature Climate Change. "" When you are a climate scientist , first you get excited by the result. Then you realise the extreme level of the snowpack is not something to get excited about. "" story continues below Trouet ' s team reached their conclusion by analyzing rings in the trunks of 1,500 blue oak trees in the region , CNBC reports. Winter precipitation plays a big role in the trees ' growth , she says , which can be measured by the width of each year ' s ring  and last year ' s was pretty darn thin. So how did it get this bad ? Seems that last winter ' s record-high temperatures and lack of rain led to the dismally low snow accumulation. Trouet also warns that California ' s "" uncontrollable wildfires "" can be linked to the lack of Sierra Nevada snowmelt , which scientists had already figured was at a 100-year low. If the climate keeps warning , she adds , "" chances of this happening again in the future are much higher than they were in the past. "" ( See how LA is fighting drought with 96 million black plastic balls. )"
668,"Ready or not , world , Dane Cook , standup comedian is back. It ' s been four years since the controversial comic went on tour. In the middle of that drought , in 2011 , he told Amy Kaufman at the LA Times that he ' d essentially retired. ( Though apparently , he did get on stage long enough to offend everyone last year. ) Now , he ' s back on the road , for a tour that will wrap up in Boston next weekend. He opened up to Kaufman about why he dropped out of the game , and why he came back. Some highlights : story continues below Why he left : He was reeling from the deaths of his mother and father , who died within 10 months of each other , and from the discovery that his brother had stolen $ 12 million from him. "" I was in a very fragile time. "" He was reeling from the deaths of his mother and father , who died within 10 months of each other , and from the discovery that his brother had stolen $ 12 million from him. "" I was in a very fragile time. "" On his last tour in 2009 : "" I was just spent. I remember one night on the road like it was a Bon Jovi song or something. My head was in my hands and I was like , ' I just want this to be really fun again , and it feels like I  m chasing or running away from something. '  I felt like , ' I have to do this , but why do I feel so heavy? ' "" "" I was just spent. I remember one night on the road like it was a Bon Jovi song or something. My head was in my hands and I was like , ' I just want this to be really fun again , and it feels like I  m chasing or running away from something. '  I felt like , ' I have to do this , but why do I feel so heavy? ' "" How he got back : "" I had a great therapist.  It ' s outlandish the amount of pain I was in , because I loved my folks. I had to remember that I ' m still the same person they raised me to be , and they ' re still with me in a different way. "" "" I had a great therapist.  It ' s outlandish the amount of pain I was in , because I loved my folks. I had to remember that I ' m still the same person they raised me to be , and they ' re still with me in a different way. "" His first night back on stage : "" I stood up there for 35 minutes and it felt like I had never left. I had worked on myself enough that things were funny again. "" For the full interview , click here . ( Read more Dane Cook stories. )"
669,"There are positives and negatives to grasp from a new report on forest loss from the UN ' s Food and Agriculture Organization. The good news : The rate of deforestation worldwide has been halved over the last 25 years. The bad news : We lost 500,000 square miles of forest  an area twice the size of Texas , or equal to 1 % of the planet ' s land area  in that time , reports the Washington Post. The BBC reports the losses were mostly in Africa , Southeast Asia , and South America , which lost 3.5 million hectares annually from 1990 to 2000. However , just 2.1 million hectares have been lost in South America annually since 2010. "" Even though , globally , the extent of the world ' s forest continues to decline ... the rate of net forest loss has been cut by over 50 % , "" the report states , per the Guardian. Just 0.08 % of forests are now disappearing annually , down from 0.18 % in the 1990s. story continues below "" The direction of change is positive "" but this trend "" needs to be strengthened , especially in the countries that are lagging behind , "" FAO ' s director general says. Climate change is still a major concern as deforestation has released an average of 2.5 billion tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere each year from 1990 ; total carbon emissions in 2014 reached 32.3 billion tons. Climate change also raises the risk of droughts and fires , which further harm forests. Should we let off conservation efforts , we could lose 170 million hectares in 20 years , according to the World Wildlife Fund. "" Fundamental changes in how we think about forests are needed. And they are needed in the next few years , "" a rep says. "" Otherwise , we will continue to lose forests at a rate of eight football fields every 10 seconds. "" ( The planet has only half as many trees as when humans began farming. )"
670,"The New York City Fire Department is mourning firefighter Michael Davidson , who died fighting a massive blaze that broke out on a film set in Harlem Thursday night. The fire started in a building being used to film Motherless Brooklyn , a 1950s-set drama directed by Ed Norton and starring Bruce Willis , the New York Daily News reports. "" This is an awful night. We ' ve lost an NYC firefighter , "" tweeted City Hall spokesman Eric Phillips. "" Sick to my stomach. "" The FDNY says the five-alarm blaze broke out in the basement of the building around 11pm and was under control by around 2 : 30am , reports NBC New York. story continues below The building where the fire broke out was the former home of the historic St Nick ' s Jazz Pub , which shut down in 2011 , the Daily News reports. Commissioner Daniel Nigro says two other firefighters are in serious condition with burns , and two other people were injured , the AP reports. The FDNY hasn ' t commented on possible causes. Davidson , 37 , is survived by his wife and four children. He is "" the 1,150th member to make the Supreme Sacrifice while serving our city , "" the department said in a Facebook post. It has been a tough month for the FDNY : Two of its firefighters were among seven Americans killed in a helicopter crash in Iraq last week. ( Read more FDNY stories. )"
671,"A second hydrogen explosion rocked Japan ' s Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant today as workers scrambled to avert a meltdown disaster. The explosion occurred in a separate unit of the reactor from the one hit by an earlier explosion Saturday. Nuclear agency officials said radiation was leaked , but that levels were low and that the reactor ' s containment was apparently not damaged. Eleven workers were injured , reports the Guardian. Nearby residents have been ordered to stay indoors , reports ABC News. story continues below I have received reports that the containment vessel is sound ,  said a government official. I understand that there is little possibility that radioactive materials are being released in large amounts.  ( Read more Japan stories. )"
672,"Earthquake Avoidance 101 : Just stay away from California , right ? Not so fast. An updated US Geological Survey report and accompanying hazard map confirm that the West still holds the worst potential for seismic shake-ups , with major faults and hazards creeping up the entire West Coast , reports the AP. But the USGS data ups the risk factor for quakes in the eastern and central US , citing the "" potential for larger and more damaging earthquakes than considered in previous maps and assessments , "" according to USA Today. Included in this data was research into 2011  s magnitude-5.8 quake in Virginia and the catastrophic 2011 quake-tsunami combo off the coast of Japan , says AP. story continues below Still , "" high-risk "" states like Alaska , California , Nevada , Utah , Missouri , and Arkansas have only "" a 2 % chance of experiencing very intense shaking over a 50-year lifespan , "" says the USGS project chief. Quake-queasy folks seriously determined to hide from the next tremor may want to consider moving to Florida , Wisconsin , North Dakota , or Minnesota  the four states that fell in the "" lowest hazard "" category. The maps  which help assess risk for insurance companies and building-code purposes  didn  t figure possible fracking-related earthquakes into the mix , which may explain why Oklahoma didn  t break the top 10 , notes the BBC. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
673,"Is humanity off the hook for California ' s record-breaking drought ? A new federal report says the drought , "" while extreme , is not an uncommon occurrence for the state , "" and is the result of natural weather patterns instead of man-made climate change , reports USA Today. NOAA researchers say a major cause of the drought has been a warm , dry , high-pressure ridge over the eastern Pacific and western US that has blocked precipitation  and climate models say greenhouse gases should have the opposite effect , causing slightly more precipitation in the region instead of blocking it. "" The report is not dismissive of global warming at all , "" an NOAA meteorologist and study co-author says. "" At the same time , drought is not a consequence of the warming planet to date. "" story continues below But scientists not involved with the study accuse the NOAA researchers of failing to take into account how warmer temperatures aggravated the drought , including causing more moisture to evaporate from the ground. The report "" completely misses any discussion of evapotranspiration and the increased drying associated with global warming , "" a climate scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research tells NBC. The scientists are even unable to agree on how bad the drought is , the AP reports : A study co-author says it doesn ' t rank among the five worst in the state ' s history , but a separate study released this week says it ' s the area ' s worst in 1,200 years. ( Read more climate change stories. )"
674,"Anne With an E has been cancelled with a c  but Netflix and Canada ' s national public broadcaster are facing an enormous backlash from fans. The Guardian reports that co-producers Netflix and the CBC have been "" besieged "" since the announcement in November that the third season of the show , which tells the story of an orphaned teen in 19th-century Prince Edward Island , would be the last. Hundreds of thousands of fans signed petitions calling for the show ' s revival , billboards went up in Toronto and New York City , and some 13 million tweets about Anne ' s cancellation were directed at Netflix and the CBC. story continues below On Sunday , the CBC announced that "" Anne-related comments "" on unrelated stories would be hidden. The tweet was followed by flood of comments from fans demanding a fourth season , CinemaBlend reports. "" My sense is that CBC has not dealt with a sustained siege like this before , "" protest organizer "" Rachel G "" tells the Guardian. She says part of what inspired such loyalty is the way the show dealt with issues like slavery and sexual assault. "" As a woman of color , there  s always been this tension for me watching period dramas , "" she says. "" I feel like Anne With an E really tackled stories of people who have always existed but were ignored by television dramas. And it did so in such a beautiful and sensitive way. "" ( Read more television stories. )"
675,"Some people in towns near the New Hampshire-Massachusetts border thought there had been an earthquake Tuesday night. It turned out to have been a massive explosion at a gender reveal party. Unlike other recent gender reveal events  including one that killed an expectant father in upstate New York  nobody was hurt in the blast at a New Hampshire quarry near Kingston , but it shook homes up to 20 miles away and at least one homeowner told authorities their foundation had been cracked , the Union Leader reports. Police say around 80 pounds of Tannerite were detonated at the quarry , along with blue chalk. story continues below "" We heard this god-awful blast , "" a woman who lives near the Torromeo Industries quarry tells NBC10. "" It knocked pictures off our walls. "" Her husband says the foundations of neighbors ' homes were cracked. A woman who lives 20 miles north of the quarry tells the Union Leader she thought there had been either an earthquake or a major accident after she heard a boom and a "" deep rumble. "" Police say the Tannerite , an explosive normally used for firearms practice , was legally acquired and the family apparently had permission to use the quarry , though charges could still be possible if property damage is confirmed. ( Read more gender reveal party stories. )"
676,"Mexico ' s president says that the magnitude of the earthquake that hit the country just before midnight Thursday is 8.2 , the biggest the country has seen in a century. Enrique Pena Nieto confirmed that at least five people have died in the temblor. He also said that major damage has been caused and that 1 million initially had been without power following the quake , but that electricity had been restored to 800,000 of them. He said that there have been 62 aftershocks and it ' s possible one as strong as 7.2 could hit within 24 hours , the AP reports. story continues below The US Geological Survey has reported that the quake had a magnitude of 8.1. It hit off the coast of southern Mexico , toppling houses in Chiapas state , causing buildings to sway violently as far away as the country ' s distant capital , and setting off a tsunami warning. NBC News reports that while the president noted the quake was much more powerful than the 1985 one that killed upwards of 5,000 people in Mexico City , the fact that this quake ' s epicenter was 40 miles off the coast appears to have resulted in "" far more limited ... damage. "" The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center says waves of 3.3 feet above the tide level were measured off Salina Cruz. The center ' s forecast said Ecuador , El Salvador , and Guatemala could see waves of that height or less. ( Read more earthquake stories. )"
677,"When you live near a major dam , the last thing you want to hear is that the integrity of it has been "" compromised "" by landslides. But that ' s exactly what residents living below North Carolina ' s Lake Tahoma were told late Tuesday in a tweet from a local National Weather Service account. "" MANDATORY EVACUATIONS , "" the post read , with specifics on who exactly in McDowell County should be getting out. "" ACT NOW TO PRESERVE YOUR LIFE ! "" NBC News reports the flash-flood emergency warning to thousands came after an engineer checked out the dam , and after heavy rain had caused "" significant and life-threatening flooding "" throughout the county , per the NWS. story continues below Weather.com says there were two landslides reported in the area , with local authorities noting the dam is in "" imminent danger "" of failing , per CBS News. Water was reported spilling out from the sides of the dam early Wednesday. "" Floodwaters have reached levels not seen since the September 2004 floods associated with Hurricanes Frances and Ivan , "" the NWS says , per NBC. The communities of Marion and Old Fort are among those most severely affected. Heavy rainfall throughout several Southern states is linked to the storm Alberto , which took the lives of two South Carolina journalists Monday when a tree fell on their SUV. ( A "" once in 1,000 years "" flood slammed a Maryland city  twice in two years. )"
678,"Don ' t look now  especially to your left , because that ' s where things seem scarier. So say University of Utah researchers who found that people reacted with greater alarm when faced with tornadoes , traffic , dog poop , and homeless people appearing on their left. Here are examples of their still-unpublished studies , described in an email to LiveScience : Students shown maps of two cities were more likely to say they would evacuate when earthquakes were in the city on the left , and students inhabited the city on the right , than vice versa ( 5.21 out of 7 over 4.72 out of 7 ) . At a dangerous crosswalk in Bucaramanga , Colombia , people crossed at an average of 6.05 seconds when traffic was on their left and 6.32 seconds when it was on their right  perhaps indicating they worried more about the former and walked faster. Seated in a row of chairs with a "" grungy-looking homeless man "" at one end , people sat 5.06 chairs away on average when he was on their left , and 4.32 chairs away when on their right. story continues below Why the difference ? Well , maybe people who read left-to-right think threats from the left appear "" in line with the flow "" ; maybe it has to do with right-handedness and brain hemispheres  they ' re not sure. In other psychology news , a North Carolina professor says certain religious people are prone to an obsessive-compulsive disorder called scrupulosity  a fear of sin or punishment from deities , CNN reports. ( Read more fear stories. )"
679,"The earthquake , then the tsunami , then the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear disaster. The implications of the devastating series of events from 2011 are still being discovered , as with September ' s report that the tsunami sent an armada of debris across the ocean , carrying with it at least 289 species to US shores in an unprecedented transoceanic event. Now , another surprise , this one tied to sand. In a study published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , scientists say they ' ve discovered radioactive cesium in an unexpected place : the groundwater below eight beaches located as many as 60 miles from the plant. And the radioactive material is being released bit by bit back into the ocean , though the scientists note public health "" is not of primary concern. "" story continues below That ' s because , as Science News reports , the water is underground and not tapped for drinking. The theory is that cesium-137-contaminated waters reached these beaches in the wake of the disaster , that the cesium essentially became attached to the sand and , over time , found a home in the fresh water-salt water mix below the beach itself. Per a press release , the cesium can ' t "" stick "" to sand under highly salty conditions , so as the brackish water becomes increasingly salty due to incoming ocean water , the cesium is freed and flows back into the ocean. The find wasn ' t just a surprise , but significant. As the researchers write , "" Aside from the aquifer beneath [ the plant ] , the highest recorded present-day activities of [ cesium-137 ] in the aqueous environment in Japan are associated with brackish groundwater underneath beaches. "" ( A robot took an important photo at Fukushima in July. ) "" It is as if the sands acted as a ' sponge ' that was contaminated in 2011 and is only slowly being depleted , "" says one researcher. ( Read more Fukushima Dai-ichi stories. )"
680,"Charlo Greene made no secret of her affection for pot when she quit her job in a blaze of profanity in order to campaign for legalization , but a neighbor tells TMZ that Greene was so industrious in her toking that his 4-year-old daughter , and we quote , "" became violently sick from the fumes seeping through the walls. "" Tyler Gilbrech ' s relationship with Greene was far from neighborly : After he narked on her to the building supervisor , he says she started threatening him ; he successfully sought a restraining order two weeks ago , and Greene has since moved out of the building. Greene , for her part , claims that Gilbrech was harassing her. ( Want to say "" f --- it "" to your job ? Try being an adult , says this columnist. )"
681,"Donald Trump ' s plan to cozy up to Russia is "" backwards "" and all politicians should stand against it , says the current US ambassador to the UN. In her last major speech on the job Tuesday , Samantha Power urged politicians to prevent the Kremlin from "" tearing down "" a "" rules-based "" world order and keep Trump from excusing Russia ' s crimes , including the annexation of Crimea , the hacking of the US election , and its role in a Syrian bombing campaign , per Quartz. She even went as far as to accuse Vladimir Putin of killing his opponents. "" Having defeated the forces of fascism and communism , we now confront the forces of authoritarianism and nihilism , "" she said at the Atlantic Council. story continues below Reversing sanctions against Russia "" will only embolden Russia "" and encourage North Korea and Iran , "" which are constantly testing how far they can move the line without triggering a response , "" Power continued , per Politico. Her sentiments were echoed by Joe Biden at the World Economic Forum on Wednesday. Biden referred to Russia ' s escalating efforts to "" undermine the US-led liberal democratic order , "" promising the Kremlin will interfere in upcoming elections in Europe , reports the Huffington Post. He also noted a general "" willingness to revert to  the same nationalist , protectionist , and isolationist agendas that led the world to consume itself in war , "" adding a "" hands off "" approach to foreign policy "" could be very ugly , "" per USA Today. ( Read more Russia stories. )"
682,"Well , you knew this was coming : Jeremy Meeks , the dreamy criminal whose mugshot is making many people rethink their aversion to dating a felon , may have a future as a model. Hollywood talent agent Gina Rodriguez signed Meeks last week , and now numerous outlets including CBS Local say he ' s already scored a modeling contract with Blaze Models in LA , though Rodriguez denies it. Rodriguez , who ' s been getting death threats since taking Meeks on as a client ( he has gang ties and is , you know , still imprisoned ) , insists , "" If we can help him in any way with his future and help him turn his life around , that  s what I  m about. "" ( Read more Jeremy Meeks stories. )"
683,"A family of four whose vehicle plunged into a flooded river on California ' s north coast , not far from the spot where the Hart family of eight went over a cliff , has been confirmed dead. The body of Soumya Thottapilly , 38 , was found Friday in an area previously covered by flood waters , miles from where witnesses reported seeing the family ' s maroon Honda Pilot fall into the Eel River near Leggett on April 6 , reports the Los Angeles Times. On Sunday , searchers smelled gasoline a half-mile north of the reported crash site and found the vehicle submerged , with the bodies of 41-year-old Sandeep Thottapilly and 9-year-old daughter , Saachi , inside , the Mendocino County Sheriff ' s Office announced. The body of 12-year-old son , Siddhant , was found submerged in the river , six miles north of the crash site , on Monday afternoon , reports the AP. story continues below The Thottapilly family  whose personal items were also found in the river  had been traveling from Portland , Ore. , to their home in Santa Clarita , Calif. They were reported missing April 8 by a relative in San Jose , who said the family hadn  t arrived for a visit as planned. Authorities now believe the family  s vehicle pulled into a turnoff on Highway 101 , about 200 miles northwest of San Jose , before plunging into the river. While the New York Times reports a broken car part was found , California Highway Patrol suggests the crash was an accident. The driver may have tried to pull over in a rainstorm but misjudged where the road ended , authorities say. CHP Capt. Bruce Carpenter says the crash and the one that killed the Hart family are "" unprecedented for this county , "" per the LA Times. "" Our hearts go out to these families. "" ( More on the Hart case here. )"
684,"The El Nino weather system of 1997-98 was so bad that descriptions of it sound like something out of a Ben Affleck disaster movie : Australia turned into a slow cooker , California and Peru were pummeled with rain , and there were rampant fires in Indonesia ; around 23,000 people perished from the combined effects around the world , per NBC News. Now NASA is warning that this year ' s El Nino could be just as bad , if not worse , with a Dec. 27 satellite image of sea surface heights indicating there could be severe droughts , floods , and other weather events that could cause humanitarian emergencies , NBC reports. story continues below "" The El Nino weather system could leave tens of millions of people facing hunger , water shortages , and disease next year if early action isn ' t taken to prepare vulnerable people from its effects , "" Oxfam says in a press release. The worst of what the Smithsonian calls a "" menacingly familiar "" system is expected to start affecting the US in early 2016 , NASA says , with a Weather Channel producer telling NBC the system could produce a "" wetter and stormier California , "" as well as extreme weather on the East Coast. ( It ' s even worse than we originally thought. )"
685,"A woman accused of torching the Wendy ' s where Rayshard Brooks was killed will be released  under certain conditions , WSB-TV reports. A judge said Wednesday that Natalie White , 29 , can be released on a $ 10,000 bond if she stays under house arrest and wears an ankle monitor. White was arrested Tuesday in Atlanta outside her attorney ' s office after law enforcement agencies traced her to an office park , per the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. "" Good things happen when great law enforcement officers coordinate their efforts and work together to apprehend dangerous suspects , "" said the Gwinnett Sheriff ' s Office. White ' s attorney , Drew Findling , says she worked with authorities to arrange her arrest and isn ' t guilty of setting the blaze. story continues below He also says she knew Brooks : "" She did know him , "" says Findling. "" They did have a close relationship. "" Brooks is seen in police video footage saying he ' d been with a girlfriend named Natalie White , but attorneys for the Brooks family are punting : "" We are unaware of any connection between the Natalie White that was arrested for arson and the Natalie White mentioned by Rayshard Brooks in the bodycam video , "" they say. "" The only person who could answer questions regarding any connection they may have had is Natalie White. "" Protesters assembled outside the Fulton County Jail on Tuesday night demanding White ' s release. On Monday night , WSB-TV reports , armed protesters blocked traffic at the Wendy ' s location. ( Brooks and MLK Jr. were mourned in the same place. )"
686,"The drought is drying up the mighty Mississippi as well as farmers ' fields. An 11-mile stretch of the river has been closed due to low water levels , stranding 97 boats while dredging is carried out , and navigation markers are replaced , CBS reports. Officials say it ' s not clear when the river , which transports $ 160 billion of cargo a year , will be reopened. A vessel ran aground in the now-closed stretch near Greenville in Mississippi , and there have been multiple other groundings upriver near Memphis. story continues below The same stretch was closed in 1988 , when a drought caused the river to sink to a record low. Near Memphis , where water levels are 12 feet below normal , the US Army Corps of Engineers dredger Hurley is at work removing up to 5,000 cubic yards of sediment per hour. "" If we lose the river system , it ' s just like losing the interstate highway system , "" its captain tells Fox News. "" Commerce is a vital part of our nation. This is a main artery for commerce. "" ( Read more Mississippi River stories. )"
687,"This is not the sort of record Arizona was looking for : The wildfire blazing its way through the Grand Canyon State is now officially the second-largest in its history , having burned 389,000 acres. The "" Wallow Fire "" is now more than twice the size of Chicago , and second only to a 2002 blaze that burned 468,638 acres , reports CNN. And the fire , which was sparked May 29 by what authorities believe was an unattended campfire , will continue to spread unless the humidity increases and the high winds peter out. It is still at 0 % containment , and has cost $ 8 million to fight thus far , notes the AP. ( Read more Arizona wildfires stories. )"
688,"Glenn Beck isn ' t done crying over spilled wine. After his rant yesterday about the wine viciously spilled on his wife at a New York park , a woman sitting behind him wrote into New York saying that the spill was a complete accident. A happy one , to be sure , but nonetheless a complete and utter accident.  The writer , one Lindsey Piscitell , says her friend spilled the wine , but then pretty much scrambled  to clean it up. story continues below The letter outraged Beck , who devoted another 10 minutes of his show to refuting it , Mediaite reports. Beck  s site , The Blaze , found that one of Piscitell  s Twitter friends had suggested that she accidentally  spill something on Beck  a smoking gun in Beck  s book. Now , Piscitell tells Gawker that she  s being bombarded with hate mail from Beck fans. You should have been aborted , a$ $ hole !  reads one charming missive. ( Read more Glenn Beck stories. )"
689,"With more than 90 % of Utah classed as in "" extreme drought , "" Gov. Spencer Cox is asking for divine intervention. In a video posted on Twitter Thursday , the Republican asked all Utahns , regardless of faith , to join together in a "" weekend of humble prayer for rain , "" CNN reports. "" By praying collaboratively and collectively , asking God or whatever higher power you believe in , for more rain , we may be able to escape the deadliest aspects of the continuing drought , "" said Cox , who has issued two executive orders this year declaring a drought emergency , per the Deseret News. According to federal authorities , some 36.5 % of the US is drought , with Utah one of the states most affected. story continues below Cox warned last month that Utah was heading into one of the worst droughts , and possibly the worst fire season , it has ever seen. The US Drought Monitor says 90.2 % of Utah is in extreme drought and 97.9 % of the state is in severe drought conditions. Faith leaders in the state say they will answer Cox ' s call to prayer , though others say they wish the governor would introduce policy changes as well , the Salt Lake Tribune reports. "" There ' s nothing wrong with prayer , but it shouldn  t blind us to what we have to do on this Earth , "" said Zachary Frankel , executive director of the Utah Rivers Council. "" And the state leaders have been blind to what we need to do in the water sector for decades. "" ( Read more Utah stories. )"
